"Asia needs nuclear energy to meet its economic, energy and environmental goals" according to Agneta Rising, Director General of World Nuclear Association, who was speaking at the Sustainable Energy Technology Asia 2018 conference in Bangkok, Thailand.

Nuclear energy is growing rapidly in Asia. Over the last five years nuclear generation in Asia increased by 35%.

Asia is a focus of new nuclear build, with 40 of the 56 reactors under construction globally being built in Asian countries. New countries are planning to start using nuclear generation, with construction of Bangladesh’s first reactor underway and preparations progressing in countries such as Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Turkey.

Plans for nuclear energy are still in the development phase in South East Asia. South East Asia has become reliant on fossil fuels for electricity supplies, with coal-fired generation increasing dramatically, quadrupling since 2000. Electricity demand has risen sharply in the region and is expected to double over the next 20 years.

“Countries in South East Asia can be part of a global clean energy future by committing to use nuclear energy. This will help reduce pollution, improve air quality and deliver better public health”, said Agneta Rising.

Rising told the conference that international vendors and supply chain companies are ready to work with businesses in the region to bring investment and help develop a highly skilled workforce. To enable this, governments need to establish clear energy policies and develop nuclear energy infrastructure, training and education.

“Nuclear energy will provide a clean and reliable 24/7 supply of electricity at a competitive price”, Rising added.

World Nuclear Associationis the international organisation that represents the global nuclear industry. Its mission is to promote a wider understanding of nuclear energy among key international influencers by producing authoritative information, developing common industry positions, and contributing to the energy debate, as well as to pave the way for expanding nuclear business.

Further InformationWorld Nuclear Performance Report 2017 – Asia EditionWorld Nuclear Association Information Library Country Profiles