World Nuclear Association took part in a series of high profile events during New York Climate Week 2025 - an influential forum where government leaders, corporations and organizations gather to discuss the biggest challenges and solutions to climate change.

Nuclear energy has enjoyed a growing presence at the event. Last year14 Major Global Banks and Financial Institutions expressed their support to Triple Nuclear Energy by 2050. This year, World Nuclear Association’s Director General, Dr Sama Bilbao y León, offered a global perspective on how nuclear can transform a year of great momentum -not least in the US- into measurable impact to support the clean energy transition.

Sama Bilbao y León attended the opening ceremony, which stressed the overarching message for this year’s conference: organizations must choose between seizing the opportunity to lead efforts against the climate crisis, or watching others define the future. We also heard from COP30 President Ambassador Correa do Lago, and UNFCCC Executive Secretary Simon Stiell on their plans and expectations for COP30.

The theme for NYCW was Power On focusing on clean energy as the foundation of ambition and progress. Opening sessions discussed global competitiveness, national security, and resilience, and how we need flexible and long-term policy frameworks to achieve the full potential of this power shift.

Navigating the Nuclear Supply Chain Revolution

The Atlantic Council hosted the Nuclear Energy Policy Summit 2025: Delivering on Nuclear Energy Ambitions, with Sama Bilbao y León moderating the “Strategic Dialogue: Navigating the nuclear supply chain revolution” session.Watch the full session back here. She is pictured below alongsideKrishna Singh, Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Holtec International. The other panellists wereStefano Buono,Chief Executive Officer, Newcleo;Margaret Cosentino,Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs, Westinghouse Electric Company;Ron Faibish,Senior Director of Strategic Development for Nuclear Technologies and Materials, General Atomics; andBrianna Lazerwitz,Energy Economist, International Atomic Energy Agency.

World Nuclear Association is proud to lead the Net Zero Nuclear initiative, a global movement that has been an important advocacy force since its launch at the World Nuclear Symposium in 2023.

Managed by World Nuclear Association, this transformative initiative advances collaboration between government and industry to support the tripling of nuclear capacity by 2050. The initiative has successfully united industry and governments at COP28 and COP29, and will continue its vital work at COP30, representing and advocating for the global nuclear energy sector as essential in achieving carbon neutrality, energy security, and energy access.

World Nuclear Association is preparing for a significant presence at COP30 in Belém, Brazil, where it will continue to advocate for nuclear energy as a vital component of the clean energy transition.

The Association will host a dedicated pavilion and a series of key events designed to highlight nuclear's role in achieving global climate goals. These events include the launch of the inaugural World Nuclear Outlook Report, which will review government pledges and present planned contributions to the tripling goal, as well as sessions on "Financing the Tripling Goal" and "Nuclear for Energy Users: Decarbonizing high-demand sectors."

The Association also plans to connect nuclear energy to the core COP30 themes of nature and biodiversity by emphasizing its minimal land footprint and showcasing how nuclear power plants often serve as stewards of wildlife.

The pavilion will host fireside chats, and Association delegates will join events with other organizations to further its message and promote the nuclear industry.

Your Support is Crucial for World Nuclear Association's Advocacy at COP30

Delivering a powerful and effective presence for nuclear energy at COP30 in Belém is a big undertaking, and it relies on the collective strength of our industry. This critical advocacy work will be more impactful through the active support and engagement of our members.

We thank ourcurrent strategic partners for Net Zero Nuclearand call on others to join us in ensuring nuclear energy is recognized as an essential partner in the global transition to clean energy.

How You Can Participate and Make an Impact:

Through funding, participation, and presence your involvement is crucial to securing nuclear energy's role at the heart of global efforts to combat climate change and achieve equitable clean energy security and access. This is our shared moment to drive policy change.

Fund Our Activities:Your financial assistance is vital to covering the costs of organizing events, producing high-impact materials, and ensuring a continuous, Association presence on the ground.

Support & Participate:We encourage your active involvement in the events themselves. Whether you can join us on the ground in Belém or participate virtually, your voice and expertise strengthen our collective message.

If you have not already done so, sign the pledge to support the tripling of global nuclear capacity by 2050.