TheAdvanced Reactors Summit XIII, in Seattle, USA, organized by the US Nuclear Industry Council, brought together leaders from across the nuclear sector with industrial users, investors, and policymakers to discuss the challenges to accelerate development and deployment of advanced and small modular reactors (SMRs).

The summit serves as a national platform for aligning U.S. industry and government on advanced reactor deployment timelines, highlighting technology readiness, supply chain needs, and regulatory pathways for advanced reactors, including SMRs, microreactors, high‑temperature reactors, and fast reactors. It is also a venue for announcements, partnerships, and investment signals that shape the U.S. advanced nuclear landscape.

A highlight this year was the participation of the new Chairman of the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), Ho Nieh, who provided a very refreshing view of the “new” NRC, an agency that is embracing its renewed mandate as an enabler of the unprecedented growth expected of the nuclear industry.

Although the event focused on the USA domestic market, the fireside chat between the Director General of World Nuclear Association, Sama Bilbao y Leon and Dan Poneman, Former Deputy Secretary of the USA Department of Energy explored the international nuclear landscape at a time of growing global competition. The discussion was framed as a forward looking and constructive dialogue on the global trajectory of nuclear innovation and the efforts being made by the Association to accelerate the efficient and safe deployment of advanced nuclear reactors in the international arena.

Bilbao y Leon shared perspectives across other regions with opportunities for advanced nuclear energy.

- Africa is entering a new phase of nuclear development, with multiple countries moving from planning to concrete action as they pursue nuclear energy to meet rising electricity demand, strengthen energy security, and support long‑term economic growth.

- ASEAN countries are steadily advancing nuclear energy readiness, with several nations moving from exploratory studies to concrete planning as they seek reliable, low‑carbon power to support rapid economic growth and long‑term energy security.

- Europe is experiencing a renewed nuclear resurgence, with many countries extending the life of existing reactors, and committing to new builds, GW-size and SMRs, as part of a broader push for energy security, decarbonization, and industrial -competitiveness.

-  India is rapidly expanding its nuclear programme—combining large‑scale reactors and SMRs, indigenous technology, and long‑term fuel cycle planning—with the SHANTI Act playing a pivotal role by opening the door for greater international cooperation and private investment to accelerate its nuclear ambitions.

Interest and development for SMRs continues to grow globally, supported by governments and industry. SMRs offer flexible applications for smaller electricity grids, industrial heat, or desalination. World Nuclear Association’sSMR Global Project TrackerandSMR Design Databaseshows that there are over 100 designs and projects at various stages of development worldwide. Many are targeting serial production, with deployment expected in the 2030s.

Another core theme of the discussion centred on finance, where Bilbao y Leon explained how the Association’s work is helping strengthen investor confidence and reduce barriers to project capitalisation, by demystifying nuclear financing. The shift from traditional financing structures to new blended, international, and public–private models reflect a maturing market increasingly aligned with long term, low carbon infrastructure investment trends. As major financial institutions deepen their understanding of advanced reactor technologies, the myriad of investment opportunities in the nuclear value chain and their associated risk profiles, the global investment landscape is becoming more favourable.

Poneman and Bilbao y Leon also underscored that strengthening and diversifying nuclear supply chains, in the US and globally, will be essential to support the at scale deployment of new nuclear and ensure cost and schedule reliability.

The Association’s nextWorld Nuclear Supply Chain Conferencein Manila, Philippines and the upcoming edition of the World Nuclear Supply Chain Report are helping the industry rebuild capabilities and bring together successful delivery teams. Bolstering global supply chains—through localisation, diversification, and enhanced international cooperation—will be critical to deliver the tripling nuclear ambition ensuring cost and schedule certainty.

Bilbao y Leon closed the fireside chat by urging the many government and industry leaders participating in the Advanced Reactor Summit to move from MOUs to MWh. Moving from ambition to delivery depends on a strong international supply chain, effective partnerships, and successful commercial deployment. With rising political support, increasing interest from large energy users and growing global engagement, the summit reaffirmed advanced reactors potential role in delivering clean, resilient, energy.