On 29-30 April, Sama Bilbao León, Director General, World Nuclear Association gave an opening speech at the 40th anniversary of the Korea Atomic Power Conference to congratulate Korea Nuclear Association, Korean Atomic Industrial Forum and the entire nuclear industry of South Korea on its great achievements in driving its continued growth and leadership.

In her opening speech, Sama emphasized that nuclear energy today is no longer just about generating electricity:

“Nuclear is about investing in infrastructure, innovation, and delivering quality of life for everyone everywhere. As the energy transition accelerates, nuclear stands at the intersection of technology, policy, and finance. To fully realize its potential, we must strengthen the partnerships that support it. This means bringing together industry, governments, and the financial community in new and deeper ways. We must design financial frameworks that incentivize investment in nuclear and other clean technologies. And we need supportive policies that build out broader energy infrastructure — not just for today, but for decades to come.”

“Indeed, none of these goals can be achieved in isolation. Reaching the ambitious goal of tripling nuclear capacity demands deep collaboration across all sectors. Financial systems, regulatory frameworks, industrial strategy, and public engagement must align behind a shared vision.”

The event was widely covered by national media. Sama has been featured in 37 Korean newspapers and 8 broadcasting media outlets, includingElectTimesandSisa Journal, quoted as an expert in the field of energy security. Sama’s speech was also featured in the Korean Atomic Industrial Forum’snuclear industry journal.

In media interviews, Sama underscored the need to separate energy policy from political debate. She criticized the instability caused by frequent policy shifts with each political administration and advocated for a more pragmatic, long-term approach.

“Energy should be viewed as essential infrastructure for economic growth, and it is recommended to exclude it from political discussions,” she stated. “We need a perspective that regards energy as a long-term asset.”

As the world races to decarbonize and secure its energy systems, nuclear energy is emerging at the heart of a global transformation. Already the second-largest source of carbon-free electricity globally — and the leading source within OECD countries —nuclear power currently supplies around 9% of the world’s electricity. But that share is poised to grow. With more countries adopting or expanding nuclear generation, nuclear energy is rapidly becoming a cornerstone of national energy strategies. Across four continents, nations are investing in new plants, expanding existing fleets, and re-powering previously shut-down reactors to meet rising energy demands. For countries with existing nuclear infrastructure, life extension programmes and power uprates are maximizing the value of these assets — some now projected to operate safely for up to 100 years.