World Nuclear Symposium 50: Energizing the Future Now3–5 September 2025 | Royal Lancaster Londonwww.wna-symposium.org

World Nuclear Association is proud to invite you to join us in the celebration of a momentous occasion: the 50th edition of the World Nuclear Symposium (“Symposium 50”), to be held on 3–5 September 2025 at the prestigious Royal Lancaster Hotel in London..

World Nuclear Symposium is the annual gathering of leaders, policymakers, and innovators that sets the agenda for the future of the global nuclear industry.

For the latest information on registrationvisit here.

Symposium 50 will bring together a senior, global audience – drawn from the nuclear industry, high-level policymakers, finance leaders and decision-makers from the tech and energy user communities – all groups that have publicly supported the goal of tripling global nuclear capacity by 2050.

Symposium 50’s Executive Programme is the place to be to hear from the leaders and companies setting the agenda of the global nuclear industry.  This year’s programme will provide global insights, new perspectives and reflections from influential leaders from inside and outside the industry, in an innovative format combining dynamic, sharp and insightful panels, fireside chats, interviews, and deeper dives.

The Symposium Strategic Summits on Finance, and Energy Users are an exciting addition to Symposium week. The Summits aim to connect senior stakeholders crucial for our industry – financiers and energy offakers – with leaders in the nuclear community. The Summits allow deeper programming on areas of importance to our members, which will explore new perspectives and opportunities for cross-sector partnership, and generate recommendations for further exploration during Symposium, and action in the months to follow.

A unique sponsorship opportunityWe have exceptional opportunities for sponsors at Symposium 50. The stunning new venue, increased capacity, expanded format, and enhanced media and communications profile provide sponsors with an exceptional platform to position themselves at the heart of the global nuclear industry, and reach and influence individuals and organizations inside and beyond the industry that are crucial to the future growth of the global nuclear enterprise. The event will also provide fantastic opportunities to showcase our company's success stories.Let's discusshow to higlight your company at Symposium 50.

Symposium 50 will offer Symposium’s customary, unmissable networking opportunities at outstanding venues in London, including the iconic Natural History Museum. Join us to make connections that count – and last!

Symposium 50’s offers exclusive exhibition space to companies that wish to promote their innovation, potential and growth to a senior, global audience. Our expanded format will increase footfall and we encourage exhibitors to celebrate Symposium 50 with innovative, interactive stands.

A new venue, and new registration options

Symposium 50 will be held at a new venuehttps://www.royallancaster.com/in London from 3-5 September. There are new registration options available, so we recommend securing your tickets as early as possible. Please visitthe websitefor the latest information. Mark your calendars for one of the biggest nuclear industry’s events of the year!