Tripling Nuclear Energy Capacity by 2050: Unleashing nuclear's potential to power data centers, refineries, manufacturing and beyond

On the sidelines of CERAWeek 2025 in Houston, a global coalition of major energy userssigned a pledgeto emphasize nuclear energy’s essential role in enhancing energy security, resiliency and providing continuous clean energy, and support the goal of at least tripling global nuclear capacity by 2050.

To announce the historic pledge, World Nuclear Association, together with Urenco,hosted a cross-sector panelfollowed by networking reception at CERA Week in Innovation Agora on the evening of Wednesday 12 March. The panel discussion focused on nuclear’s role in providing energy security, and powering and decarbonizing a variety of energy-intensive industries. From tech to petrochemicals, aviation and beyond, there is an opportunity to expand nuclear’s clean, reliable and economical energy to power these industries and growing global energy demands. World Nuclear Association, together with its industry partners, calls for government leaders to enable policies for rapid nuclear development to meet the target—supported by 31 countries—to at least triple global nuclear capacity by 2050—an ambition that is increasingly being supported by financial institutions and end energy users.

Speaking at the eventSama Bilbao y León, Director General of World Nuclear Association, thanked participants and pledge signatories, saying: "Thank you for joining our large energy users pledge and supporting the ambition to triple nuclear energy by 2050. This is not the end; it is just the beginning. We know that many other large energy users are considering joining the pledge in the future. That is our hope and our invitation - If you would like to be part of this group, please join us!"

The CERAWeek event provided opportunity for the founding signatories of the Large Energy Users Pledge to take centre stage of the Innovation Agora. See coverage on social media and in the news below.

A wide range of media outlets also covered the event:CNBCbroke the news live on television Wednesday morning, along with articles fromFinancial Times,Bloomberg,Reuters,Forbes (Brazil),Axios,Barrons,CCN,Power Magazine,UPI,Washington Examinerand many others across the globe.

About Tripling Global Nuclear Energy Capacity

Initially launched at World Nuclear Symposium in September 2023 and in partnership withEmirates Nuclear Energy Corporationahead of COP28 in Dubai, the goal to triple nuclear energy capacity by 2050 has earned support from 31 countries through the Declaration to Triple Nuclear Energy and more than 140 nuclear industry companies through an accompanying industry pledge. Fourteen of the world’s largest financial institutions backed the goal in September 2024. Now, they have been joined by a cross-sector group of large energy users that have endorsed the same goal, publicly at a conference that covers the entire energy sector.

The Large Energy Users Pledge was led by World Nuclear Association and its strategic partners within theNet Zero Nuclear initiative, including CERAWeek Event Co-HostUrenco Group.

The full list of signatories to the Large Energy Users Pledge is as follows: Allseas, Amazon, Bureau Veritas, Carbon3Energy, Clean Energy Buyers Association, Core Power, Dow, Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan (FEPC), Fly Green Alliance, Google, Lloyd's Register, Meta, Occidental, OSGE, Siemens Energy (statement of support).

World Nuclear Association's Net Zero Initiative calls for unprecedented collaboration between government and industry to at least triple global nuclear capacity and achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. It drives impact through advocacy and engagement, ensuring nuclear stays at the forefront of energy and global climate discussions. The initiative provides a clear, concise narrative that resonates beyond the nuclear sector, making it accessible to policymakers, investors, energy users, and the public.

Our Net Zero Nuclear Strategic Partners,Urenco (Tier 2),Cameco (Tier 3), and IHI and JGC (Tier 5), play a key role in this journey, creating long-term value by fueling nuclear energy’s recognition as a clean and reliable cornerstone of global sustainability.