This press statement is issued jointly by Canadian Nuclear Association, FORATOM, Japan Atomic Industrial Forum, Nuclear Energy Institute, Nuclear Industry Association and World Nuclear Association

World leaders will meet on April 22 and 23, at the invitation of US President Biden, to galvanise efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  We have less than thirty years to cut carbon emissions from every sector of our global economy to zero.

To meet the urgency and the magnitude of this challenge we must take a realistic, science-based approach that addresses all sectors. The world will need to generate many times more clean energy than we do today. To achieve this will require that we use every low-carbon technology at our disposal. Nuclear power must be one of those technologies.

Nuclear technologies bring benefits that are unmatched:

Today, nuclear innovation is unlocking further possibilities for sustainable development. Nuclear energy is a vital part of a successful transition to a clean energy future. We urge global leaders to put in place technology-neutral policies that will make possible for countries to deploy all the low-carbon options available as they set their action plans to reach net-zero. Do not deprive current and future generations one of the most effective low-carbon generation sources currently available.

TheLeaders Summit on Climateis taking place on 22&23 April 2021

Further information on the organizations issuing this statement can be found on their websites:Canadian Nuclear AssociationFORATOMJapan Atomic Industrial ForumNuclear Energy InstituteNuclear Industry AssociationWorld Nuclear Association

World Nuclear Association is the international organisation that represents the global nuclear industry. Its mission is to promote a wider understanding of nuclear energy among key international influencers by producing authoritative information, developing common industry positions, and contributing to the energy debate, as well as to pave the way for expanding nuclear business.

If you would like more information on this topic, please call Jonathan Cobb on +44 (0)20 7451 1536 or emailpress@world-nuclear.org