Energy ministers today endorsed nuclear energy’s role in a future clean energy mix at an initiative launched during the Clean Energy Ministerial in Copenhagen, Denmark.

The Nuclear Innovation: Clean Energy Future (NICE Future) initiative will play a crucial role in multilateral dialogue and engagement of policy makers on the role of nuclear energy as part of a low carbon mix contributing to sustainable development. NICE Future will facilitate dialogue and cooperation between all clean energy communities, including nuclear and renewables.

Recognizing the importance of ministerial-level focus on nuclear energy technology and innovations, World Nuclear Association Director General Agneta Rising said;

“Countries will need to use nuclear energy alongside other forms of clean energy to deliver a sustainable energy mix that is affordable to all and that supports economic development.“

Nuclear energy currently supplies 11% of the world’s electricity, about one third of all low carbon generation.  55 new reactors are due to start-up in the five years from 2015 to 2019.  Those reactors are located in 12 different countries, two of which are hosting their first nuclear power plant.  The 55 reactors are based on 19 different designs, and nine of those designs are being built for the first time. The additional capacity of these new reactors is equivalent to adding nearly 15% to global nuclear capacity.

Rising noted that the nuclear industry is continuing to innovate with new technology and new ways for nuclear energy to contribute to sustainable development, such as desalination to provide drinking water, high temperature heat for non-electric and industrial applications and recharging the world’s growing electric vehicle fleet cleanly.

The nuclear industry has set the Harmony goal for nuclear energy to supply 25% of global electricity by 2050, working in harmony with other low carbon energy sources. This could be achieved with the construction of 1000 GWe of new nuclear build, which would require annual build rates similar to those reached in the 1980s.

Rising stressed the need for an inclusive dialogue to make progress towards a clean energy future;

“Nuclear energy is one of the most cost competitive low carbon energy sources, but it needs a fair and stable energy framework to go forward. We should explore how to combine different clean technologies together “

World Nuclear Associationis the international organisation that represents the global nuclear industry. Its mission is to promote a wider understanding of nuclear energy among key international influencers by producing authoritative information, developing common industry positions, and contributing to the energy debate, as well as to pave the way for expanding nuclear business.