A panel of energy experts have highlighted the important role nuclear energy has to play in combating climate change and have called on negotiators to enable all low carbon technologies to fulfil their full potential.

Agneta Rising, Director General, World Nuclear Association said “The future decarbonization of the electricity sector is central to tackling climate change. We have the solutions, but we are lacking the decisions. Those decision makers here at COP24 have the most immediate goal to achieve, to ensure the Paris Agreement rulebook encourage and enables all low carbon technologies, including nuclear energy.”

Dr Fatih Birol, Executive Director, International Energy Agency (IEA) told the COP 24 delegates via video link that "We need a secure and sustainable energy supply and I believe nuclear has an important role to play."

Cosmin Ghita, CEO, Nuclear Electrica spoke about Romania's success in decarbonizing its generation mix using nuclear energy - "Romania’s energy mix should include clean sources, which nuclear delivers on. We don't see our targets being achieved without the use of nuclear power".

Delegates were also told of Poland’s plans to make greater use of nuclear energy. "Poland's first power plant will be built by 2033 with five more by 2043. Nuclear power will be the main tool for energy supply." said Dr Józef Sobolewski, on behalf of Polish Minister of Energy Krzysztof Tchórzewski.

These comments were made at an event on the new Clean Energy Ministerial (CEM) NICE Future initiative, which looks at how nuclear and renewables can be combined to enable both forms of technologies.

Dr. Jill Engel-Cox, NICE Future Operating Agent, Program Director, U.S. National Renewable Energy Laboratory said that "Together, nuclear and renewable energy could reduce emissions of carbon and help meet this century’s global low-emission energy goals"

Sarah Lennon, Associate Deputy Assistant Secretary, Office of Nuclear Energy, U.S. Department of Energy said that "The NICE Future initiative puts nuclear at the heart of the discussions about a clean energy future."

World Nuclear Association is the international organisation that represents the global nuclear industry. Its mission is to promote a wider understanding of nuclear energy among key international influencers by producing authoritative information, developing common industry positions, and contributing to the energy debate, as well as to pave the way for expanding nuclear business.