World Nuclear Association warmly welcomes Belgium, Brazil, China, and Italy as the latest endorsers of the Declaration to Triple Nuclear Energy by 2050. They join a group of 38 countries committed to expanding nuclear energy’s role in delivering clean, secure, and affordable energy systems.

The announcement was made in Paris during theNuclear Energy Summit 2026, hosted by the Government of France and supported by the IAEA. The Summit brought Heads of State, international organisations, financial institutions, and industry together to discuss nuclear energy’s role in meeting global energy security and climate targets.

Speaking from Paris at theNuclear Energy Summit, DrSama Bilbao y León, Director General of World Nuclear Association, welcomed the newest endorsers,“Today’s announcement adds tremendous momentum to the global coalition of the ambitious, who are supporting the declaration to triple nuclear capacity by 2050. The ambition of the countries joining the declaration is recognized in our World Nuclear Outlook Report which shows nuclear capacity can exceed the tripling goal, if government targets are met. Collectively, governments and industry must now turn this ambition into action and deliver.”

World Nuclear Association and theFrench Nuclear Strategic Committee (CSFN)co-hosted a round table“One ambition for nuclear: Tripling Nuclear Energy”,calling for coordinated action to provide certainty and scale up delivery. Governments must create stable policy frameworks, industry must prove it can deliver at scale, financial institutions must deploy capital confidently, and major electricity users must signal long‑term demand.

Representing the entire nuclear industry, World Nuclear Association has worked with partners worldwide to encourage political alignment around the need to rapidly scale nuclear energy through theNet Zero Nuclear (NZN)initiative. Continued collaboration between government and industry leaders to support the ambition to at least triple global nuclear capacity by 2050 is needed to meet climate commitments, enhance energy security, and expand access to clean, reliable power.

> The Declaration is now endorsed by 38 countries (latest inbold), including: Armenia,Belgium,Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada,China, Croatia, Czech Republic, El Salvador, Finland, France, Ghana, Hungary,Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Republic of Korea, Kosovo, Moldova, Mongolia, Morocco, Netherlands, Nigeria, Poland, Romania, Republic of Rwanda, Senegal, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Sweden, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, and the United States of America.

> Many of the world’slargest financial institutions and major energy usershave joined this coalition of the ambitious in support of the nuclear industry pledge toat leasttriple global nuclear capacity by 2050.

> TheWorld Nuclear Outlook Reportprojects that global nuclear capacity could reach 1446 GWe by 2050, exceeding the 1200 GW target set in the Declaration to Triple Nuclear Energy, if government targets are met. This assessment includes plans for continued and extended operation of existing reactors, completion of those under construction, and realization of planned and proposed projects, alongside national capacity targets.