About two-thirds of the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) that should have been submitted by countries ahead of COP30 have now been published. NDCs are near-term public plans for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and tackling climate change.

Among them,Association of Southeast Asian Nations(ASEAN) membersSingaporeandThailandinclude nuclear energy, signalling a bold shift in the region’s energy narrative.  Others in the region have signalled their intent to include nuclear as part of their own energy transition.  For instance, Indonesia and Vietnam are laying the groundwork for nuclear capacity-building, recognizing that expertise and infrastructure are essential for deployment.

For a region long reliant on coal and imported gas, these are more than tweaks to policy — taken together they demonstrate a strategic pivot toward a low-carbon future that includes nuclear energy.

ASEAN’s energy demand is set to surge over the next two decades, population growth and economic development was thekey driver of the 15.2 % increase in energy use in 2022 alone. Meeting this demand while cutting emissions is a formidable challenge. Nuclear energy offers a proven, reliable, and low-carbon solution that complements renewables and strengthens energy security. This underscores the need for more countries to explicitly recognize nuclear within NDCs as a viable pathway for reducing fossil fuel dependence.

The Philippines, as one of the fastest growing economies in the region and will assuming the Chairmanship ofASEAN in 2026, is uniquely positioned to champion a clean energy transition. The Philippine Department of Energyrecently released a comprehensive frameworkfor the country's first commercially developed and operated nuclear power plant and has given endorsement and support for the hosting of  our World Nuclear Supply Chain Conference (WNSC) in 2026 in Manila, showing why the Philippines is an ideal host able to frame nuclear adoption as a cornerstone of sustainable growth.

Collaboration Is KeyNo country can build a nuclear future alone. Regional cooperation will determine whether these ambitions succeed. ASEAN can provide a regional platform for partnership between South Asia countries on nuclear development to enable collaboration on regulatory, financing, supply chain and workforce. While established nuclear nations such as China, France, Japan, Russia, South Korea, and the US are already signalling support for ASEAN’s development efforts. This is where WNSC becomes an indispensable platform to connect developers, vendors, constructors, and suppliers, ensuring that ambition translates into action.

WNSC 2026, is also supported by ASEAN Centre of Energy (ACE) to facilitate ASEAN Plan of Action for Energy Cooperation (APAEC) programme as the strategic blueprint to guide regional energy cooperation. The event offers a unique opportunity to all ASEAN members to engage with the leading international nuclear supply chain and explore viable pathways for deployment to meet their energy needs. The event will enable the exchange of knowledge and ideas, forging of new business partnerships and attracting investment. It is not just a conference; it is the place to shape the next decade of nuclear deployment in the region. By convening industry leaders, policymakers, and innovators, WNSC will help transform nuclear from a line in an NDC into a functioning reality.

The decisions made today will shape the region’s energy security and climate trajectory for generations. Join us in Manila and be part of the conversation that will define Southeast Asia’s energy landscape.

Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) are the climate action plans that countries submit under the Paris Agreement. These plans outline the specific actions and targets each country intends to take to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, adapt to climate change impacts, and support global climate goals.

Most countries have already submitted updated NDCs for COP30, but it remains important to signal nuclear energy as part of long-term climate strategies. Countries taking part in the NDC process—especially those who have endorsed theDeclaration to Tripleor are planning and investigating nuclear deployment over the coming decades—should include nuclear energy in their NDCs.

Nuclear energy would enable them to meet the Paris Agreement goals and make their energy systems: