London, 4 September 2025– The global nuclear community is gathering this week at the50th World Nuclear Symposium, taking place from3–5 Septemberat theRoyal Lancaster, London, under the theme“Energizing the Future Now.”This landmark event brings together industry leaders, policymakers, financiers, and energy users to shape the future of nuclear energy at a time of unprecedented momentum.

Opening the Symposium with a video address,Chris Wright, Secretary, U.S. Department of Energy, promised to re-establish“the US as a global leader in nuclear energy.”which would create“tens of thousands of high-paying jobs”,emphasising the US government’s support for“a strong American nuclear industrial base” and “a secure and sovereign domestic nuclear fuel supply chain”.

Welcoming a record number of delegates to Symposium,Dr Sama Bilbao y León, Director General of World Nuclear Association stated: “Tripling global nuclear capacity is not just a goal—it is a necessity. To meet climate targets, ensure energy security, and power sustainable development, we must accelerate deployment, streamline regulation, and scale innovation. This will require bold, visionary leadership, cross-sector collaboration, and a renewed commitment to public trust and transparency.”

Key highlights from Symposium week so far:

This year’s Symposium marks a pivotal moment for the industry, celebrating five decades of collaboration while looking ahead to a future powered by innovation, partnerships, and clean energy leadership.

Addressing the Symposium, Secretary Wright said, “The World Nuclear symposium gathering has become one of the most important stages for advancing the future of nuclear energy, bringing together leaders from the government, industry and finance across the globe.”

As energy demand increases, Secretary Wright emphasises the nuclear energy can power “data centres, Microchip manufacturing, petrochemical production, healthcare, desalinization and other industries.”

Commenting on the growth in the nuclear industry, during Symposium Exhibition, sponsored by Rolls-Royce SMR, on Wednesday evening,Dr Sama Bilbao y León, the Director General of World Nuclear Association said: “For the Association it is also time of growth. Since last symposium we welcomed 70 new member companies, large and small, which form an increasingly diverse group. New members are from finance, consulting, supply chain and tech – reflecting a broadening interest in nuclear. This is a global group that covers the entire value chain.”