World Nuclear Association is proud to announce the inaugural World Nuclear Supply Chain Conference, set to take place at the Crowne Plaza Warsaw – The Hub, Poland, May 20-21, 2025.Marzena Czarnecka, Minister of Industry, Republic of Polandwill open the conference, which aims to unite industry leaders, policymakers, and stakeholders to strengthen and scale the global nuclear supply chain, capitalizing on the growing momentum for nuclear energy expansion worldwide.

Recent events in Europe have highlighted the vital contribution nuclear makes to resilient energy grids, and the need to invest in expanding nuclear capacity. The latest World Nuclear Supply Chain Report, from collaborative analysis conducted by the industry expert working group, estimated a $2 trillion investment opportunity to grow the global supply chain over the next 15 years.

Sama Bilbao y León, Director General of World Nuclear Association, said ahead of the event: “The unprecedented support for nuclear energy as an essential technology to achieve decarbonization, energy security and socio-economic growth in a timely, cost-effective and equitable manner has sent a clear signal to industry to scale up the deployment of nuclear projects. World Nuclear Association research shows a $2tn investment opportunity, our Supply Chain conference aims to mobilize the nuclear industry to build the successful delivery teams that will realize the opportunity and turn vision into reality.”

Rafał Kasprów CEO of Orlen Synthos Green Energy,the Strategic Sponsor for the conference, said:“A programmatic approach to delivering nuclear power offers the best route to deployment - WNSC is a platform to connect with other business - we need all stakeholders to play their part and come together as an industry. Now, it is clear that neither tripling nuclear power in the world nor achieving net zero by 2050 is possible without nuclear, including SMRs. These projects can drive both global and local sustainable socio-economic development and wide range of applications to help Poland transition.”

World Nuclear Supply Chain conference provides a platform to facilitate business-to-business (B2B) engagement by connecting project developers, vendors, construction companies and suppliers to provide opportunity for long-term business relationships and strategic partnerships. There are many international delegations and more than 300 B2B meetings scheduled as part of an actively participating audience.

The event, also sponsored by EDF, GE Vernova Hitachi Nuclear Energy, and Baker McKenzie,will highlight the key business drivers needed for nuclear project success, and enable the international supply chain to flourish and to seize the opportunities ahead. Exploring local and global perspectives through Poland’s nuclear plans, recognizing nuclear as critical large infrastructure deployment, and recommending the transition from a ‘projects to programmes’ approach, all stakeholders can realize the socio-economic benefits of nuclear.