World Nuclear Symposium: Final day wrap up

The packed final day spanned the globe, with insights from the week’s full programme and deep dives into key new areas.

World Nuclear Fuel Report launched, confirming sufficient uranium resource to meet projected nuclear growth, if resources are brought into production.  Timely investment in fuel services is needed to increase future production.

Friday’s programme continued the global perspectives, with an opening panel brining voices from three African countries - South Africa, Egypt, Rwanda - at different stages of their nuclear journeys. Each are tackling the challenges of public acceptance, workforce development, lifetime extension and series build of large reactors.

Session to catch up on: Africa’s Nuclear Future: Unlocking Opportunity, Unleashing Potential

Watch back any session in theMy Symposium delegate area.

Rosatom outlined the scale and breadth of its global programme: power generation and large reactors under construction at home and abroad, small and advanced reactors, MOX and other advanced fuels, floating nuclear power plants, icebreakers and applications in medicine - and even a successful nuclear science museum in Moscow.

There was a spotlight on India, as it seeks greater engagement with the global industry since announcing its target of 100GW by 2047.

Rajendra Dattajirao Mane, Director & President Nuclear, “We expect a big mix of reactors, and technology, coming into India. With regulators already working on licensing them.”

The regulation session agreed thatinstitutional alignment and dialogue are crucialto ensuring regulation kept pace with nuclear’s expansion into the potential for nuclear’s use in a host of different areas, including the maritime sector.

While experienced regulators spoke in the leadership panel:

The session on Financing The Energy Infrastructure Super-cycle returned to the challenge of assembling investable projects. Key is the allocation of risk and ownership between governments, finance, private equity and the supply chain.

We’re pleased to share that the next event in ourFinancing Nuclear Briefing Serieswill take place on24 October, hosted by KPMG in London. This will build on the momentum of our Finance Summit, continuing vital discussions and advancing the recommendations put forward. The series will continue throughout 2026 in different locations around the world.

The day closed reflecting on Wednesday’s summit followed by a high level closing panel. Read back our summary of theFinance SummitandEnergy Summits.

Speaking on the high level closing “Energizing the Future Now: The next 50 years start today”, Kristen Panerali, Head of Clean Power and Electrification Program at World Economic Forum spoke about reframing the energy mindset:“Nuclear can unite with other energy types on a single narrative about the value of more clean power and value of clean energy systems.”

Closing the Symposium, World Nuclear Association, Director General Dr Sama Bilbao y León told delegates:“The world wants nuclear to succeed. The world is looking at all of us to succeed. And with that comes a responsibility to act decisively and deliver results. Let’s continue moving forward with our success and ambition, and with confidence that our successes at this time of opportunity will resonate for decades to come.”

Thank you all for coming and look out for longer reads and analysis over the coming weeks.