TheWorld Nuclear Fuel Report 2025will be published on Friday 5 September atWorld Nuclear Symposium 50.

Every two years, World Nuclear Association releases its flagship publication—theWorld Nuclear Fuel Report. Set to launch its 22nd edition in September 2025, this report has been a cornerstone of the nuclear industry since the mid-1970s. But how is such a comprehensive document compiled?

The process is a collaborative effort led by the Association’s members  integrating the Fuel Report Working Group; a team of experts and stakeholders from across the global nuclear fuel sector. Member organisations of the Association contribute data, insights, and analysis drawn from confidential surveys, international agencies, and public sources. This collective industry input helps shape comprehensive projections of global nuclear fuel supply and demand.

The report is more than just numbers—it’s a strategic tool. It helps industry leaders assess market trends, anticipate fuel availability, and navigate emerging challenges. The report is also an essential input for policymakers concerned about energy independence and security of supply. With the nuclear landscape evolving rapidly, and a complex geopolitical and geoeconomic global backdrop, the 2025 edition will offer fresh insights into regional supply and demand dynamics in addition to the global perspective.

The detailed tables and figures, (for example, Figure 5.13: "Reference Scenario supply and demand" below taken fromThe World Nuclear Fuel Report2023 presents supply and demand for three scenarios for uranium). With growing concerns around energy, national, and climate security, the need for smart, timely investment in uranium assets and nuclear fuel services has never been greater. The Association’s Fuel Report Working Group plays a pivotal role in guiding these efforts.

Participation in the working group is not only impactful but deeply rewarding. Contributors take pride in shaping a report that influences investment decisions and policy directions. As Matt Lichtenwald (Cameco), the Demand Co Chair for the last two reports, said:

“The key to the report's success is active participation from members and would encourage any new member to consider getting involved in future reports.”

Now more than ever, collaboration is essential. The Associations calls on professionals across the fuel sector to join the network, share their expertise, and help secure the future of nuclear energy.

To find out more about our Working Groups, visithttps://world-nuclear.org/our-association/working-groups#.