The newNuclear Energy Technology Roadmappublished by the IEA and OECD NEA says nuclear energy allows countries to build scalable, efficient and long-term power sources that can serve as a base to underpin other forms of low-carbon generation. The report says nuclear global capacity must more than double by 2050, with nuclear supplying 17% of global electricity generation by then, to meet the IEA 2 Degree Scenario for the most effective and efficient means of limiting global temperature rise.

The report highlights the need for stable, long-term investment frameworks to allow capital-intensive low carbon projects, such as nuclear power plants, to be developed. The roadmap also emphasises the need for greater certainty in electricity prices, including the cost of carbon emissions.

Agneta Rising, World Nuclear Association Director General, said; "We agree with the report's assessment of nuclear energy as an important part of the generation mix needed for a sustainable energy future.  Governments must play their part in creating markets that support long-term low carbon investments. Nuclear energy is much needed as it is reliable, affordable and clean. We in the industry must work to ensure that we deliver this in a timely and cost-effective way."

The IEA is an autonomous organisation which works to ensure reliable, affordable and clean energy. The Nuclear Energy Agency (NEA) is a specialised agency within the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). The Nuclear Energy Technology Roadmap is available at:http://www.iea.org/newsroomandevents/news/2015/january/taking-a-fresh-look-at-the-future-of-nuclear-power.htmlandhttp://www.oecd-nea.org/pub/techroadmap/

The World Nuclear Association (WNA) is the international organisation that represents the global nuclear industry. Its mission is to promote a wider understanding of nuclear energy among key international influencers by producing authoritative information, developing common industry positions, and contributing to the energy debate, as well as to pave the way for expanding nuclear business.

Jonathan Cobb: +44(0)20 7451 1536David Hess: +44(0)20 7451 1543press@world-nuclear.org