To mark International Women’s Day (IWD), World Nuclear Association has signed an agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) by which the Association will help the IAEA to find suitable industry internship opportunities for women undertaking the Marie Sklodowska Curie and Lise Meitner fellowship programmes. The IWD campaign theme for 2024 isInspire Inclusion.

Recognising the importance of diversity and inclusivity throughout the global nuclear industry, World Nuclear Association is committed to supporting the industry in the creation of an inclusive environment able to harness the full potential of all talented individuals. Seeking, therefore, to enhance the representation of women in the industry, World Nuclear Association and the IAEA commit to jointly promote the professional development of women undertaking the Marie Curie and Lise Meitner fellowship programme by providing opportunities within the nuclear industry. World Nuclear Association will help to create a seamless pathway for these fellows to engage in valuable industry placements and enter their careers, contributing to the advancement of nuclear science and technology on a global scale. Increasing workforce development and inspiring inclusion to get more women in nuclear is vital to the goal of the industry to triple global nuclear capacity by 2050.

Speaking from Vienna at the IAEA eventFor More Women in Nuclear: IAEA Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellowship and Lise Meitner Programmes, World Nuclear Association Director General Dr Sama Bilbao y Leon, said “International Women’s Day is an opportunity to celebrate women, whilst also highlighting the ongoing challenges women face everywhere. I am thrilled to join IAEA Director General Grossi, along with dozens of other global nuclear leaders and more than four hundred Marie Sklodowska Curie and Lise Meitner fellows from all over the world, to promote increased participation of women in all aspects of the nuclear sector. We need talented women everywhere to join the nuclear industry, not just to triple global nuclear capacity, but also because including and promoting women leads to a more inclusive and empowered world."

The Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellowship Programme (MSCFP) aims to help increase the number of women in the nuclear field, supporting an inclusive workforce of both men and women who contribute to and drive global scientific and technological innovation.

Named after pioneer physicist and twice Nobel Prize laureate Marie Skłodowska-Curie, the Programme aims to inspire and encourage young women to pursue a career in the nuclear field, by providing highly motivated female students with scholarships for Master’s programmes and an opportunity to pursue an internship facilitated by the IAEA.

Scholarships are awarded annually to 100 plus students depending on the availability of funds. Consideration is given to field of study, and geographic and linguistic diversity. For more information,click here.