His Excellency Mohamed Ibrahim Al Hammadi, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Emirates Nuclear Energy Corporation (ENEC) joined Dr Sama Bilbao y León, Director General, World Nuclear Association and Dr Kirsten Cutler, Senior Strategist for Nuclear Innovation, U.S. Department of State at the IAEA's headquarters in Vienna to update delegates on the progress made by the Net Zero Nuclear initiative. Net Zero Nuclear has been founded by World Nuclear Association and ENEC to call for collaboration among governments, industry leaders and civil society to triple global nuclear capacity to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050.

The first Net Zero Nuclear corporate partners were highlighted at the conference, including GE Hitachi Nuclear Energy, Terrapower, Centrus, and Urenco. More partners will be announced soon.

Delegates discuss Net Zero Nuclear initiative

Sama Bilbao y León said; “We want to recognize the generous support of our industry partners. At the same time, we are looking to each and everyone here at this IAEA conference to join with us, whether you are a small NGO or large organization, to bring visibility to the important and essential role of nuclear energy in the context of climate change.”

His Excellency Mohamed Ibrahim Al Hammadi said; “If we triple global nuclear capacity that gives us a good route to get us closer to the target of net zero. We invite you to join Net Zero Nuclear, sign our declaration, and spread the word to help us achieve this goal.”

In the lead up to COP28, which will be hosted by the United Arab Emirates in Dubai later this year, Net Zero Nuclear aims to bring together political leaders and industry to engage in evidence-led, actionable, solutions-focused dialogue to enable the rapid expansion of the global nuclear fleet and the acceleration of research and development into emerging nuclear technologies. The initiative will work to ensure nuclear energy’s potential is fully realized in facilitating the decarbonization of global energy systems, by promoting the value of nuclear energy and removing barriers to its growth.