Nuclear security is a cornerstone of public trust and industry resilience. Through this partnership, WINS and World Nuclear Association will combine expertise to strengthen security culture, address emerging threats, and promote professional development across the global nuclear workforce. Together, they aim to ensure that as nuclear energy expands to meet climate and energy security goals, it does so with the highest standards of safety and security.

Sama Bilbao y León, Director General of World Nuclear Association, commenting on the MoU, said:“As the global nuclear industry works to at least triple global nuclear capacity by 2050, we recognise that this expansion must be achieved responsibly. Our collaboration with WINS underscores our shared commitment to information exchange to facilitate the wider awareness and understanding of nuclear security. Together, we will strengthen operational safety and security culture and continue to build trust that is essential for a clean, reliable, and secure energy future with nuclear.”

Lars van Dassen, Executive Director of World Institute for Nuclear Security, commenting on the MoU, said:“The essential underpinning of security must be in place as the global nuclear industry expands. Our collaboration with WNA under this MoU will help to promote the shared commitment to security culture and ensure a workforce that is equipped to understand nuclear security. Our collective work will focus on the nuclear industry as well as nuclear exporters, their customers, and their communities so that security is continuously strengthened.”

The MoU sets out a framework for collaboration on critical security topics, including cyber security, insider threat mitigation, supply chain integrity, and operational safety and security culture. It also emphasizes joint efforts in training, benchmarking, and capacity building, as well as advancing diversity and inclusion within the nuclear sector. Both organizations will work together on research, events, and knowledge exchange to foster a global community of nuclear security professionals and accelerate nuclear project delivery to reach the tripling goal without compromising safety and security.

Launched at theWorld Nuclear Symposiumin September 2023 and in partnership with theEmirates Nuclear Energy Corporation ahead of COP28 in Dubai, the initiative to triple global nuclear energy capacity by 2050 has gained momentum:

>33 nations endorsing theDeclaration to Triple Nuclear Energyinclude: Armenia, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, El Salvador, Finland, France, Ghana, Hungary, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Republic of Korea, Kosovo, Moldova, Mongolia, Morocco, Netherlands, Nigeria, Poland, Romania, Republic of Rwanda, Senegal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, and the United States of America.

>Over 140 nuclear industry companies have endorsed the accompanyingindustry pledge.

>16 major financial institutions havebacked the goalsince September 2024.

>Now joined by a growing group oflarge energy users, the initiative reflects broad-based support across the energy ecosystem.

WINS is an international non-governmental organisation committed to building a global community of nuclear security professionals who are willing to work together to strengthen the security of nuclear and other radioactive materials. It was established in September 2008 and has grown to include more than 10,000 members in 170 countries. WINS’ primary purpose is to improve the professionalism and competence of all those involved in nuclear security It promotes knowledge sharing and best practices through workshops and webinars, guidance documents, certified training programmes in four languages, and benchmarking and evaluation services. For more information, visit www.wins.org

Suzanne Carlson, World Institute for Nuclear Security

World Nuclear Association is the international organisation that represents the global nuclear industry. Its mission is to promote a wider understanding of nuclear energy among key international influencers by producing authoritative information, developing common industry positions, and contributing to the energy debate, as well as to pave the way for expanding nuclear business. For more information, visit world-nuclear.org

Henry Preston, World Nuclear Association