World Nuclear Association has published its inauguralWorld Nuclear Outlook Report. The report provides comprehensive information on global nuclear energy developments, along with detailed analysis of stated national government targets. It shows that tripling global nuclear capacity by 2050 — a goal endorsed by more than 30 countries since COP28 — remains achievable, provided governments take immediate and sustained action to deliver on their own commitments.

TheWorld Nuclear Outlook Reportprojects that global nuclear capacity could reach 1446 GWe by 2050, exceeding the 1200 GW target set in theDeclaration to Triple Nuclear Energy, if government targets are met. This assessment includes plans for continued and extended operation of existing reactors, completion of those under construction, and realization of planned and proposed projects, alongside national capacity targets.

Speaking from the World Economic Forum in Davos,Dr Sama Bilbao y León, Director General of World Nuclear Association said:“The launch of the inaugural World Nuclear Outlook Report highlights the essential role of nuclear energy as a cornerstone to meet the growing electricity and energy demand. Our analysis indicates that governments have ambitions that exceed the goal to triple nuclear capacity by 2050. Now, forward-thinking governments, global industry leaders, financiers, and civil society need to work together and take timely action to turn those ambitions into action. This is our chance to deliver a cleaner, more secure energy future for everyone everywhere, powered by affordable 24/7, low-carbon nuclear energy.”

The Association summarizes key findings from theWorld Nuclear Outlook Reportand areas of progress more generally for the nuclear industry as:

> Policy Ambition:Announced plans and targets by governments for new nuclear build would deliver 1446 GWe of nuclear capacity by 2050 if combined with extending the operations of existing reactors up to 80 years and construction of reactors currently planned and proposed. With almost all existing reactors expected to remain in operation, nuclear capacity is projected to reach 502 GWe by 2030, driven mainly by the completion of reactors already under construction.

> Global Momentum:The report identifies 50 countries where plans are in place for nuclear capacity to be in operation in 2050, with established nuclear countries such as China, France, India, Russia, and United States accounting for nearly 1000 GWe of the projected capacity by 2050.

> International cooperation: Many additional member states are also exploring the deployment of nuclear energy but have not yet announced a formal nuclear development plan. Experienced countries, multilateral development institutions, and the global nuclear industry are ready to collaborate and support emerging economies interested in deploying nuclear energy for the first time.

> Climate and SustainabilityAlignment:Nuclear energy has been formally recognized by the UNFCCC as a key tool for emissions reduction as one of the few clean sources of reliable and dispatchable energy. It is among the lowest lifecycle greenhouse gas emitters and uses the least land and resource use of all electricity generating sources.

> Broadening Applications:Nuclear energy has potential for a significant role in powering and decarbonizing the entire economy, in areas such as heavy industry, manufacturing, shipping, district heating and desalinization. Leading energy users, including Amazon, Allseas, Dow Chemicals, Google, Meta and Oxyhave pledged support for the goal to triple nuclear.

> Financial Backing:TheWorld Bankand other Multilateral development banks have revised lending policies to include nuclear energy projects, and16 major financial institutions have affirmed their support for nuclear expansion.

However, the report warns that achieving this trajectory will require accelerated licensing and permitting, suitable energy market frameworks, investment in supply chains and fuel cycle infrastructure, and clear policy frameworks to support continued long-term operation of existing reactors and deployment of large-scale and small modular reactor (SMR). The report concludes that governments’ policy ambitions exceed the global goal to triple nuclear, however its realization is not guaranteed. To secure a clean, reliable, and resilient energy future for all, governments, together with financiers and the global nuclear industry, must act now to implement clear execution plans that can realise policy promises.

Read the full report atworld-nuclear.org/our-association/publications/global-trends-reports/world-nuclear-outlook-report.