Landmark membership and industry engagement highlights India’s ambitious plans for nuclear.

World Nuclear Association is proud to announce that NTPC, the biggest integrated power generating company in India, has officially joined as members. This landmark membership with the Association highlightsIndia’s ambitious plansfor nuclear, and readiness to collaborate internationally asIndia Energy Week 2026(IEW) begins.

NTPC’s membership comes at a key moment for the Indian nuclear industry, coinciding with the passing of theSHANTI Bill(Sustainable Harnessing and Advancement of Nuclear Energy for Transforming India) that enablesprivate and international participation in the nuclear sector in India. India Energy Week 2026 — one of the world’s most important and largest energy gatherings — taking place from 27 to 31 January in Goa will mark a significant milestone for the country’s nuclear sector, featuring for the first time a dedicatedNuclear Zone, hosted by World Nuclear Association. This initiative offers a unique opportunity for companies to exhibit technologies, engage with decision-makers, and position themselves at the forefront of India’s low-carbon transition.

“NTPC’s membership in World Nuclear Association marks an exciting milestone for our global industry,”said Dr Sama Bilbao y León, Director General of World Nuclear Association.“When one of the world’s largest electricity generators commits to nuclear energy as a core part of its future portfolio—and recognizes the vital role of our Association in connecting with the global nuclear community—it sends a powerful signal to markets, policymakers, and industry leaders worldwide. This partnership will help accelerate nuclear deployment at the scale required to meet climate goals and to support India’s extraordinary socio‑economic growth.”

Arnada Prasad Samal, Chief General Manager (NTPC) & CEO (NPUNL), said of NTPC membership:"Joining World Nuclear Association marks a significant milestone in NTPC’s journey toward delivering a sustainable nuclear powered future. Nuclear energy will be central to India’s clean energy transition, and through this partnership, we aim to collaborate globally to accelerate innovation, investment, and deployment."

NTPC contributes around a quarter of all electricity generated in India, powering homes, industries, and increasingly, digital infrastructure. As India’s economy and technology sectors continue to grow, the demand for reliable, carbon-free electricity is surging. India’s goal to reach100 GWe of nuclear capacity by 2047reflects the scale of ambition needed to meet this challenge.

Through Anushakti Vidhyut Nigam Ltd (Ashvini), a joint venture between NTPC and Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL) to construct, own and operate nuclear power plants in India, NTPC is developing the Mahi Banswara Rajasthan Atomic Power Project. This project, inaugurated in August this year, will comprise four 700 MWe pressurised heavy water reactors (PHWRs) and is part of India's fleet mode initiative to build ten identical 700 MWe reactors at various locations across India under uniform design and procurement plans, an approach the Indian government says will bring in cost efficiencies and speed deployment, while consolidating operational expertise.

NTPC has also created a wholly owned subsidiary - NTPC Parmanu Urja Nigam Limited (NPUNL) - with a goal of planning and executing an integrated programme for harnessing and developing nuclear energy for generating electricity or other purposes on a commercial basis as well as building, owning, operating and managing nuclear plants, promoting research and development, and selecting suitable sites for nuclear power stations and ancillary facilities.

NTPC is India’s largest integrated power company, dedicated to lighting every corner of the country and building a sustainable future for all. As a leader in the power sector, we are committed to generating efficient and affordable power, aiming to achieve 150 GW by 2032. We embrace a diverse fuel mix, integrating fossil fuels, gas, hydro, nuclear, and renewable sources to minimize our carbon footprint.

Established in 1975, NTPC has played a vital role in India’s economic growth for nearly five decades. With a commitment to operational excellence and adherence to global standards, we are lighting every fourth bulb in the country! For more information, visitntpc.co.in/about-us