Released today, a new document -Nuclear’s role in achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals- highlights how nuclear technologies contribute to addressing issues such as eliminating hunger, improving health, providing access to affordable and clean energy, generating decent work and economic growth, and mobilizing climate action.

The 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are an urgent call for action by all countries in a global partnership. The goals recognize that ending poverty and other deprivations must go hand-in-hand with improving health and education, reducing inequality, and spurring economic growth – all while tackling climate change and protecting our environment.

This document has been produced through collaboration by Canadian Nuclear Association, FORATOM, Japan Atomic Industrial Forum, Nuclear Energy Institute, Nuclear Industry Association and World Nuclear Association.

In an introduction to the document the heads of these organizations made the following comments:

“Nuclear energy provides the clean, on-demand affordable electricity needed to meet the world’s growing energy demands, while fulfilling the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement. But nuclear technologies do so much more! The planet and humanity are much better off because of the many nuclear contributions to achieving each of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals.”Sama Bilbao y León, Director General, World Nuclear Association

“Nuclear requires very little land to generate massive quantities of low carbon energy. This low land footprint brings numerous benefits, not only in terms of reduced visual impacts. A lower land footprint reduces the loss of habitats, thus helping to support biodiversity goals.”Yves Desbazeille, Director General, FORATOM

“Nuclear is a key energy source to balance the so-called three Es: energy security, economic efficiency, and environmental sustainability. It is a reliable, established technology that can contribute significantly to a sustainable future.”Shiro Arai, President, Japan Atomic Industrial Forum

“Advanced and existing nuclear reactors can provide new possibilities to support clean industrialization worldwide. They are uniquely positioned to provide clean electricity, decarbonize our resource extraction and heavy industries, work in tandem with renewables and can be used to produce hydrogen in a cost-effective, clean way using either electricity or heat processes.”John Gorman, President and CEO, Canadian Nuclear Association

“Nuclear energy provides skilled, well-paid, long-term jobs that are essential to a just transition. Jobs in nuclear drive valuable investment into local communities and create real opportunities for the next generation to build a better life.”Tom Greatrex, Chief Executive, Nuclear Industry Association

“Reliable nuclear carbon-free energy provides the foundation of a clean energy future to reach climate goals and improve public health and quality of life.”Maria Korsnick, President and CEO, Nuclear Energy Institute

The report is available todownloadand to readonline.