Nuclear generation reached a near-record high in 2019, with output reaching 2657 TWh, enough to meet more than 10% of the world’s electricity demand. However, action is needed now to kick-start more than 100 new reactor construction projects that would generate jobs, boost economies and make a major contribution to a clean energy future.

These points are highlighted in the World Nuclear Association Performance Report 2020, which was published today. Launching the report, Agneta Rising, Director General of World Nuclear Association said;

“In 2019, nuclear electricity generation rose for the seventh year running, demonstrating excellent performance. In 2020 the world’s nuclear reactors have shown resilience and flexibility, adapting to changes in demand while ensuring stable and reliable electricity supplies.”

Growth was particularly strong in Asia, where nuclear generation rose by 17% in 2019.  China has more than tripled nuclear generation in six years, from 105 TWh in 2013 to 330 TWh in 2019, and is now responsible for more than half of nuclear generation in Asia.

While the performance of the world’s operating reactors continued to improve, the pace of new nuclear start-ups needs to increase to meet the nuclear industry’s Harmony goal. Six reactors, with a combined capacity of 5.2 GWe started supplying electricity, compared to an average annual objective for 2016-2020 of 10 GWe.

“Globally there are more than 100 nuclear new build projects that are ready to begin. Each would generate thousands of jobs during construction and hundreds of jobs during 60 years or more of operation.  They would help contribute to economic recovery plans and deliver the clean and reliable electricity needed to meet sustainable development goals.”

Download the World Nuclear Performance Report

World Nuclear Associationis the international organisation that represents the global nuclear industry. Its mission is to promote a wider understanding of nuclear energy among key international influencers by producing authoritative information, developing common industry positions, and contributing to the energy debate, as well as to pave the way for expanding nuclear business.

If you would like more information on this topic, please call Jonathan Cobb on +44 (0)20 7451 1536 or emailpress@world-nuclear.org