Paris, 18 September 2025 (photo credit: OECD-NEA)

World Nuclear Association together with associations representing the nuclear industry in OECD countries, presented a joint industry statement at theRoadmaps to New Nuclear conference, organised by OECD Nuclear Energy Agency. The statement calls on governments to take the necessary steps to support the deployment of nuclear energy to strengthen energy security and help meet growing global demand for clean and abundant electricity.

In addition to presenting the statement, the Association participated in a number of discussions, including breakout sessions onFinance, andFuel Supply SecurityandWorkforce Development.

Addressing the Finance session,Dr Sama Bilbao y León, Director General, World Nuclear Association, stated"we need to demystify nuclear and challenge the notion that nuclear projects are currently too challenging or are the eminent domain of government or that we need NOAK projects before mainstream finance can participate. There is nothing inherently unique in nuclear projects that make them infinitely more difficult to finance. Like any other class of complex capital-intensive infrastructure with high initial investment, long lifecycles, and a positive social and economic development impact, it is necessary to strike a balance between government instruments and market support”

In the Fuel Supply Security session,King Lee, Head of Policy and Industry Engagement, World Nuclear Association, congratulated the OECD-NEA on organizing their 3rdRoadmap event - highlighting the opportunity to facilitate dialogue between policy makers and industry in support of the goal to triple global nuclear capacity. Addressing delegates questions on priority investment needs in the nuclear fuel supply chain, Mr Lee drew on some of the findings from the latest World Nuclear Fuel Report 2025,published at the 50thWorld Nuclear Symposium earlier this month. This report has been compiled by the global nuclear industry and represents the industry outlook for global supply and demand for uranium and of nuclear fuel services, including conversion, enrichment, and fuel fabrication.

In the Workforce Development session,Isis Leslie, Head of Leadership and Capacity Development, joined Callum Thomas, Chairman of the Association's Working Group on Talent and Workforce Development, in session with representatives from industry, government, academia, and young generation for a discussion that underlined the critical challenge of building the skills and leadership capacity required to achieve the goal of tripling global nuclear capacity, and the vital role of industry collaboration in meeting this objective.

According to the statement, presented by nuclear industry associations, governments need to take action in the following key areas:

World Nuclear Association's leadership team meeting with NEA Director-General William D. Magwood, IV. (Photo credit: OECD-NEA)