Six More Countries Endorse the Declaration to Triple Nuclear Energy by 2050 at COP29

Today at COP29 UN Climate Change Conference in Baku, Azerbaijan, six countries joined the declaration to triple global nuclear energy capacity by 2050.

The announcement was made on the third day of the World Climate Action Summit by Ministers and high-level officials representing the signatory countries, at an event co-organized by the COP29 Presidency, the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United States of America, and World Nuclear Association.

The announcement brings the total number of countries endorsing the declaration to 31.

Opening the event, Dr Sama Bilbao y León, Director General, World Nuclear Association, representing the global nuclear industry said:

"We warmly welcome these six new countries to the Coalition of the Ambitious. Today's announcement highlights theessential role of nuclear energy in meeting the Paris Agreement goals in a cost-effective and equitable manner.

Leadership requires a clear-eyed assessment of the here and now, but also the foresight to prepare for what the world will need not only in 2050, but in the decades after.

The signatories to this declaration are making a long-term commitment. But it is a long-term commitment with a long term pay off, providing energy certainty and reliability in an uncertain world.”

Highlighting the countries, industries and companies supporting the aspiration to triple global nuclear capacity by 2050, Sama continued:

“Nuclear can now count on the world’s biggest banks to back the growth of the nuclear industry. Nuclear has attracted the interest and investment of the world’s largest and most advanced technology companies. And nuclear has ever-increasing support from the public, who recognize that in nuclear they have an answer to their demands for energy security, reliable supply and prices, and a response to climate change. This is truly a global coalition of the ambitious. And thank you all for being part of it.”

Today’s announcement is the latest moment of recognition for the essential role of nuclear energy in achieving net-zero emissions. Yesterday at COP, the US Administration issued aroadmapoutlining plans for the deployment of 200 GW of nuclear capacity by 2050. Other recent developments have included:

The 31 nations endorsing the Declaration to Triple Nuclear Energy include Armenia, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, *El Salvador, Finland, France, Ghana, Hungary, Jamaica, Japan, *Kazakhstan, *Kenya, Republic of Korea, *Kosovo, Moldova, Mongolia, Morocco, Netherlands, *Nigeria, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, *Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, and the United States of America.

*New endorsers, as of Wednesday 13 November 2024, at COP29 in Baku.

* Taken from World Nuclear Association’s annual World Nuclear Performance Report, published in August 2024.

World Nuclear Associationis the international organization that represents the global nuclear industry. Its mission is to facilitate the growth of the nuclear sector by connecting players across the value chain, representing the industry’s position in key world forums, and providing authoritative information and influencing key audiences.

If you would like more information on this topic, please call Henry Preston on +44 (0)20 7451 1523 or emailpress@world-nuclear.org

Net Zero Nuclearaims to recognize and advance the essential role of nuclear energy in global efforts to combat climate change by tripling global nuclear capacity by 2050 and by bringing together world leaders, policymakers, the nuclear industry, scientists, civil society, and activists. For more information on Net Zero Nuclear, visitnetzeronuclear.org.