World Nuclear Association warmly welcomes South Africa as latest endorser of the Declaration to Triple global nuclear energy capacity by 2050, joining 33 nations committed to expanding nuclear energy’s role in delivering clean, secure, and affordable energy systems.

Dr Kgosientsho Ramokgopa, South African Minister of Electricity and Energy, made the announcement during the Africa Energy Indaba in Cape Town (3–5 March 2026), marking a significant milestone for Africa’s leadership in the global clean energy transition. Minister Ramokgopa said "We are delighted to be part of the global support for nuclear energy visible through the Declaration to Triple Global Nuclear Capacity by 2050".

South Africa’s participation underscores the country’s longstanding recognition of nuclear energy as a vital part of its energy mix. As the only nation on the African continent with existing commercial nuclear generation, the decision signals strong continental leadership and renewed ambition for expanding clean baseload power.

Dr Sama Bilbao y León, Director General of World Nuclear Association, welcomed the decision, noting that South Africa’s commitment “adds tremendous momentum to the global effort” and sends a powerful signal of leadership across Africa and internationally. She highlighted that nuclear energy can play an essential role in improving energy access, strengthening security, and meeting global climate objectives.

> TheDeclaration to Triple Nuclear Energyencourages nations to support the global ambition of tripling nuclear generation capacity by 2050 to meet climate commitments, enhance energy security, and expand access to clean, reliable power.

> The Declaration is now endorsed by 34 countries, including: Armenia, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, El Salvador, Finland, France, Ghana, Hungary, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Republic of Korea, Kosovo, Moldova, Mongolia, Morocco, Netherlands, Nigeria, Poland, Romania, Republic of Rwanda, Senegal, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Sweden, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, and the United States of America.

> World Nuclear Association, representing the entire nuclear value chain, continues to support governments and industry through the Net Zero Nuclear initiative and the broader coalition to accelerate growth in nuclear energy worldwide.

> Many of the world’slargest financial institutions and major energy usershave joined this coalition of the ambitious in support of the nuclear industry pledge toat leasttriple global nuclear capacity by 2050.

> TheWorld Nuclear Outlook Reportprojects that global nuclear capacity could reach 1446 GWe by 2050, exceeding the 1200 GW target set in the Declaration to Triple Nuclear Energy, if government targets are met. This assessment includes plans for continued and extended operation of existing reactors, completion of those under construction, and realization of planned and proposed projects, alongside national capacity targets.