The nuclear industry is experiencing significant growth as governments and the private sector seek clean, reliable and affordable energy solutions to meet climate and security goals alongside the ever-increasing demand for electricity. Expansion of global nuclear capacity is being driven by extensions to operating lifetimes of existing plants, deployment of new reactors and advanced development of new technologies including small modular reactors (SMRs). The demand for nuclear power is accelerating as end-users, from big tech to manufacturing to aviation and maritime shipping, are looking for clean and reliable power sources.

For companies in the entire nuclear value chain, this growth presents unprecedented opportunities. This includes reactor technology vendors, engineering and construction companies, equipment manufacturers, material suppliers and professional services organizations. Similarly, companies involved in reactor construction and deployment, fuel services, operations and maintenance (O&M), and waste management will see expanded roles as new reactors come online.  With nuclear energy emerging as a key player in the clean energy transition, businesses that are positioned within the supply chain are set to thrive.

The future of nuclear energy offers vast potential, with multiple avenues for growth. Companies that are responsive to market trends can capitalize. Market intelligence and insight will help organizations to form new partnerships, innovate and develop new business models to meet their customers' demands, as part of a resilient nuclear value chain.

Join the World Nuclear Supply Chain Conference on 20-21 May 2025, in Warsaw, Poland to connect with key players across the global nuclear industry. This premier event, brought to you by World Nuclear Association, supported by major global companies across the entire nuclear value chain, offers unparalleled opportunities to strengthen partnerships, gain insight from top experts, and explore the latest nuclear projects and innovations. Attendees can engage in exclusive B2B meetings and network with procurement leaders, developers, and suppliers. This is your chance to stay ahead of industry trends, connect with industry leaders, and create lasting business relationships.

Take advantage ofearly bird pricingand secure your spot now to access special rates. Don’t miss out on this vital event focusing on the current opportunities in the nuclear energy sector.Sign up todayto position your company for success in the rapidly evolving global nuclear landscape!

Find out more about theWorld Nuclear Supply Chain Conference.