A ceremony has marked the completion of construction of  unit 1 at Barakah , the first nuclear power plant to be constructed in United Arab Emirates (UAE).

South Korea’s President Moon Jae-in and Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan attended the ceremony marking the completion of construction of the first unit at Barakah on 26 March.

All four units at Barakah are scheduled for completion by 2020. The four APR1400 nuclear reactors will supply up to 25% of the UAE’s electricity needs and save up to 21 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions every year.

Agneta Rising, Director General of World Nuclear Association said, “This is an important step towards start-up of the first reactor at Barakah. The UAE will soon benefit from the reliable supply of clean electricity that Barakah will produce.”

Ahead of the opening ceremony President Moon commented that the success of the Barakah nuclear power plant could be said to be the joint success of South Korea and the UAE and that he would visit the plant to see the potential for expanding collaboration in the nuclear power sector (1).

South Korea has also been interested in international collaboration in other regions. Last November, South Korea signed a memorandum of understanding with the United Kingdom calling for greater collaboration on new nuclear power plants.

President Moon’s pride and support for cooperation between South Korea and countries such as the United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom is in contrast to his own domestic energy policy, which aims to stop construction of new nuclear power reactors and not extend the operation of existing units beyond their original design life.

Agneta Rising said, “The UAE’s policy of reducing electricity generation from fossil fuels by developing a mix of clean energy technologies that includes a substantial contribution from nuclear energy is one that should be embraced worldwide, including in South Korea. Using nuclear energy will help ensure the swiftest and most cost-effective transition to a clean, secure and reliable energy future.”

World Nuclear Associationis the international organisation that represents the global nuclear industry. Its mission is to promote a wider understanding of nuclear energy among key international influencers by producing authoritative information, developing common industry positions, and contributing to the energy debate, as well as to pave the way for expanding nuclear business.

Further Information(1) President Moon's comments were reported byGulf News(2)Nuclear power in United Arab Emirates