The World Association of Nuclear Operators (WANO) and World Nuclear Association have signed a new Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), as the basis of a partnership that aims to enhance the performance of nuclear power plants worldwide.

Under the agreement, both organisations will work together to discuss challenges and identify solutions to deliver better outcomes for the industry in four key areas; emergency response support, export controls, the nuclear supply chain and capacity building.

Agneta Rising, Director General, World Nuclear Association and Peter Prozesky, Chief Executive Officer, WANO sign the MoU (Photo:World Nuclear Association)

Peter Prozesky, Chief Executive Officer at WANO, commented: “We are delighted to announce this new agreement with World Nuclear Association. It formalises and strengthens the close and successful working relationship that already exists between the two organisations. At WANO, our mission is to maximise the safety and reliability of nuclear power plants globally. By working more closely with World Nuclear Association, we will harness each organisation’s expertise, track record, resources and influence to improve these key areas of mutual interest, for the benefit of our members and the world’s nuclear industry.”

The organisations have agreed to work together in the area of emergency response by exchanging information, while always respecting confidentiality – which is a fundamental part of WANO’s ethos and commitment to its members.

Agneta Rising, Director General at World Nuclear Association, stated: “Our mission is to promote a wider understanding of nuclear energy among key international influencers by producing authoritative information, developing common industry positions, and contributing to the energy debate. World Nuclear Association is the organisation is charge of providing  communication support to the industry, the public, and the media also in emergency situations, and this role will be enhanced through cooperation with WANO.”

For export controls, both organisations will collaborate together to build stronger relationships with the Nuclear Suppliers Group. Prozesky stated: “We will continue to put forward our case that nation-specific regulations and red tape regarding non-proliferation should be proportionate to risk, and that unnecessary bureaucracy relating to export controls hampers our ability to conduct our important safety work at plants worldwide.”

Rising commented: “World Nuclear Association welcomes the opportunity to meet the Nuclear Suppliers Group and to contribute to their discussions on how export controls can avoid unnecessary impacts on legitimate international trade in nuclear power equipment, fuel and technology.”

For the supply chain, WANO will participate in World Nuclear Association’s influential supply chain working group meetings. This will help enhance co-operation on global supply chain issues – relating to optimisation, modernisation and capacity building - that are increasingly affecting the industry.

Under the terms of the deal, WANO will also continue to participate in the World Nuclear University (WNU) Advisory Panel, and provide experts to give lectures at WNU events.

Notes to EditorsThe World Association of Nuclear Operators (WANO) is a not-for-profit international organisation that helps its members maximise the safety and reliability of nuclear power plants worldwide. WANO was established in 1989 by the world's nuclear power operators to exchange safety knowledge and operating experience amongst organisations operating commercial nuclear power reactors. WANO’s members operate some 460 nuclear units in over 30 countries and areas worldwide. WANO works with its membership to assess, benchmark and improve performance through mutual support, exchange of information and emulation of best practices.www.wano.info

World Nuclear Association is the international organisation that represents the global nuclear industry. Its mission is to promote a wider understanding of nuclear energy among key international influencers by producing authoritative information, developing common industry positions, and contributing to the energy debate, as well as to pave the way for expanding nuclear business.www.world-nuclear.org