World Nuclear Association congratulates all involved with the design, construction and commissioning of the Fuqing 5 Hualong One nuclear power reactor. The unit was connected to the grid at 00:41 local time on 27 November and has started to deliver electricity. The start-up of Fuqing 5 brings the number of operable reactors worldwide to 442.

Sama Bilbao y León, Director General of World Nuclear Association said; "Fuqing 5 is now providing clean. reliable and cost-effective electricity supplies to millions of customers. This first Hualong One reactor adds another design to the portfolio of advanced reactors that have started up around the world in recent years.”

Fuqing 5 started construction on 7 May 2015. It has a net capacity of 1000 MWe (Megawatts electric) and at full power will generate nearly 24,000 MWh of electricity each day and avoid the emissions of almost 8 million tonnes of carbon dioxide each year.

In addition to sister plant, unit 6, at Fuqing, due to enter service next year, reactors based on the Hualong One design, also known as the HPR1000, are under construction in China at Fangchenggang, Taipingling and Zhangzhou. Two units are also under construction in Karachi, in Pakistan.

Sama Bilbao y León added; "China has recently joined the ever-expanding list of countries seeking to achieve net zero carbon emissions and its growing fleet of nuclear reactors will be central to achieving this goal. China’s investment in nuclear energy will also continue to contribute to the global nuclear industry’s Harmony goal of 1000 new reactor start-ups before 2050, enabling nuclear energy to supply 25% of the world's electricity needs."

World Nuclear Association is the international organisation that represents the global nuclear industry. Its mission is to promote a wider understanding of nuclear energy among key international influencers by producing authoritative information, developing common industry positions, and contributing to the energy debate, as well as to pave the way for expanding nuclear business.

If you would like more information on this topic, please call Jonathan Cobb on +44 (0)20 7451 1536 or emailpress@world-nuclear.org.