“Momentous shift” in World Bank policy to finance nuclear energy projects, says World Nuclear Association

World Nuclear Association welcomes the decision of the World Bank’s board to support financing nuclear energy projects. The global development bank, which lends at favourable rates to help countries build infrastructure, has shifted its energy policy to help meet rising demand for clean energy and advance sustainable development goals.

As well as supporting new developments such as small modular reactors, World Bank says it will help to secure operating extensions for existing nuclear reactors and provide grid upgrades. Investing across the entire value chain of nuclear is crucial to tripling global nuclear energy capacity by 2050.

TheWorld Bank last financed a nuclear project in 1959. Over the six decades since, the nuclear energy sector has grown substantially, with reactors across the world providing thousands of round-the-clock terawatt-hours of reliable, emissions-free energy and preventing the release of billions of tons of carbon dioxide.

This shift in policy is further validation of nuclear energy’s as part essential part of global sustainable energy future. A coalition of31 countriesthat have endorsed Declaration to Triple Nuclear Energy, alongside financial institutions and energy users, had called on shareholders of the World Bank to encourage the inclusion of nuclear energy in its energy lending policies.

World Nuclear Association has participated in knowledge exchanges to World Banks and member states, providing expert guidance and resources on nuclear energy. With access to up-to-date information and the entire global nuclear value chain and nuclear development, the Association can support and inform the work of the World Bank and other multilateral development banks.

Sama Bilbao y León, Director General of World Nuclear Association, said of the decision:“This is a momentous shift for international energy policy, that comes after years of engagement with World Bank on the sustainability of nuclear energy. Access to finance is critical for extending the benefits of clean and reliable nuclear energy to all. World Nuclear Association is ready for further collaboration with World Bank and other multilateral development banks to support them in capacity building for decision making on nuclear financing.”

In direct response to the growing interest from the finance sectors investment opportunities of nuclear as an energy infrastructure asset class, the Association is rolling out a Financing Nuclear Briefing Series as a structure dialogue between finance and nuclear sectors. The first, taking place on 26 June in London, will explore improvements to existing financing channels that can help deliver the rapid capacity expansions that are being targeted in multiple markets worldwide.

This year World Nuclear Association will host its50thWorld Nuclear Symposiumin London, 3-5 September. While celebrating five decades powering the past, Symposium 50 will tackle today’s defining challenges and chart the bold action needed as nuclear energizes the future. As part of the programme, there will be two strategic summits on finance and energy users, bringing all key stakeholders together to find viable pathways to unlock the investment needed to triple global nuclear capacity by 2050.