In 2024, nuclear reactors supplied more electricity than ever before.World Nuclear Performance Report 2025charts this record milestone and demonstrates nuclear’s endurance as part of a clean and resilient global energy mix.

The global reactor fleet ran at an average capacity factor* of 83% in 2024, higher than any other source of electricity. This measure of reliability is reflected consistently over the past 20 years, with reactor performance remaining high regardless of age and older reactors having some of the highest capacity factors.

The increase in global nuclear generation seen over recent years is primarily due to a rapid increase in capacity in Asia. Of the 68 reactors commissioned worldwide over the past decade, 56 were built in Asian countries. This momentum shows no sign of slowing, with 59 of the 70 reactors currently under construction also located in the region.

In the near term, global nuclear capacity will continue to rise incrementally. However, rising electricity demand continues to outpace clean energy growth. Tripling nuclear energy capacity is therefore imperative to deliver reliable, large-scale clean energy in the longer term.

Commenting on the Report, Dr Sama Bilbao y León, the Director General of World Nuclear Association said:“The new record electricity generation from nuclear energy in 2024 is a testament to the industry. To meet our global energy and climate goals, it is a record that needs to be bettered again and again, every year, by increasingly larger amounts.”

She concluded:“The new record set for nuclear generation marks a rallying point and a call to action. The challenge ahead is immense, but so is the opportunity. With the backing of bold global industry leaders, forward-thinking governments, and an increasingly engaged public, the path to tripling nuclear capacity is not only achievable; it is necessary. This is our chance to build a cleaner, more secure energy future for everyone everywhere, powered by reliable, low-carbon nuclear energy.”

World Nuclear Association’s Performance Report tracks nuclear construction and energy output across the globe. The Association collates publicly available information from the IAEA and other sources to produce its analysis of the global status of the nuclear industry. The report is produced on an annual basis and was first published in 2016. The report is available for free on the World Nuclear Associationwebsite here.

*An electricity source's capacity factor measures how much electricity it actually produces over time compared to its maximum possible output, calculated as actual generation divided by theoretical maximum generation at full capacity.

** Emissions are calculated in g CO2 eq. per kWh, based on values in the United National Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE)Carbon Neutrality in the UNECE Region: Integrated Life-cycle Assessment of Electricity Sources(2022)

The World Nuclear Performance report is published ahead of the 50thWorld Nuclear Symposium, taking place 3-5Septemberat the Royal Lancaster, London. Symposium 50 promises to bring together nuclear industry leaders, global policymakers, the finance community, and decision-makers from the tech and energy user communities to shape the future of the global nuclear industry.  The theme for this year is ‘Energizing the Future Now’.

Entry for the press isfree.Please register via the following link and scroll down to fill out thepress form.