World Nuclear Association is pleased to announce that it will be a ‘Knowledge Partner’ to the 24th World Energy Congress as part of a Memorandum of Understanding signed with the organising committee today. The memorandum is a welcome example of nuclear energy being represented in leading international dialogues on clean energy. It outlines how both parties will cooperate to promote global innovation and the transition to a low-carbon future.

Speaking at the signing in Copenhagen, World Nuclear Association Director General Agneta Rising noted that “The World Energy Congress is the world’s largest and most influential energy event. This memorandum helps us build international recognition for nuclear energy and its importance to achieving global climate targets, while also supporting sustainable development. We need to work together because we need all low carbon options to make a future clean energy system work.”

Rising continued, “In the five years from 2015 to 2019 we should see 55 new reactors start in twelve countries, two of those countries hosting their first nuclear power plant. This new nuclear generation will avoid the emission of more than 400 million tonnes of carbon dioxide each year, compared to coal.”

However even though new build levels are currently at a 25 year high, they will have to increase further if the industry is to play its full role. The nuclear industry’s Harmony goal is for nuclear to supply at least 25% of electricity by 2050. This would require the construction of around 1000 GW of new nuclear capacity by then.

World Nuclear Associationis the international organisation that represents the global nuclear industry. Its mission is to promote a wider understanding of nuclear energy among key international influencers by producing authoritative information, developing common industry positions, and contributing to the energy debate, as well as to pave the way for expanding nuclear business.

Jonathan Cobb: +44(0)20 7451 1536press@world-nuclear.org