LONDON, UK–World Nuclear Association is proud to announce that Microsoft Corporation, one of the world's leading technology companies, has officially joined as our newest member. This landmark membership underscores the growing recognition of nuclear energy as an essential foundation for powering the digital economy and achieving ambitious climate goals.

In order to meet growing electricity demand globally, the world not only needs to continue to invest in renewables, but also advanced carbon-free technologies. Microsoft has emerged as a leader in securing reliable, carbon-free electricity.

"Microsoft's membership with the Association is a game-changing moment for our industry,"said Dr Sama Bilbao y León, Director General of World Nuclear Association."When one of the world's most innovative technology companies recognizes nuclear energy as essential to their carbon-negative future, it sends a powerful signal to markets, policymakers, and industry leaders worldwide. This partnership will accelerate nuclear deployment at the scale needed to meet both climate goals and thegrowth in energy demand from data centres."

Microsoft will participate in the global nuclear industry’s premier gathering in London -World Nuclear Symposium- taking place 3-5 September. This year will include an Energy Users summit where the nuclear, tech and other energy-intensive sectors will explore bold new partnerships, tackle shared challenges, and unleash opportunities.

Microsoft joins World Nuclear Association with an already impressive portfolio of initiatives that demonstrate the company's commitment to firm, reliable, carbon-free power, includingLong-Term Agreements.The company has signed long-term agreements including a 20-year power purchase agreement with Constellation Energy to restart the Crane Clean Energy Center, formerly known as the Three Mile Island Unit 1, and signed one of the first deals with fusion energy technology company Helion, through a long-term power purchase agreement.

Microsoft's membership comes at a critical juncture for the nuclear industry, as data centre electricity demand is projected to grow over the next decade. The company joins World Nuclear Association alongside other technology leaders who recognize nuclear power's ability to provide continuous, high-capacity, carbon-free electricity.

Key areas of collaboration will include:

Microsoft's membership will be spearheaded by its world-class Energy Technology team, bringing unparalleled expertise to World Nuclear Association 's working groups and initiatives. The team is led by Dr Melissa Lott and includes Todd Noe and Archie Manoharan.

This exceptional team, combining cutting-edge technology innovation with deep nuclear industry expertise with will work directly with the Association’s technical working groups to accelerate nuclear deployment, streamline regulatory processes, and develop new commercial models that can scale nuclear energy to meet the demands of the digital economy.

"Microsoft's entry into World Nuclear Association’s membership reflects the strategic moment that our industry is working in as we work to meet our carbon-free energy goals,"said Dr Melissa Lott, reflecting on the agreement’s significance for advancing carbon-free energy solutions."When you combine Microsoft's technological capabilities with the nuclear industry's proven track record of delivering reliable, carbon-free baseload power, you create the foundation for unprecedented innovation in carbon-free energy technology deployment."

"Nuclear energy isn't just part of the technology sector’s energy strategy—it's essential to it,"said Dr Sama Bilbao y León, Director General of World Nuclear Association."Microsoft joining the Association allows greater collaboration between one of the major energy users and the nuclear industry to address the regulatory, technical, and financial challenges to accelerate nuclear deployment. The global nuclear industry isn’t just generating electricity; we're energizing technology."