LONDON- At World Nuclear Symposium 50, the latest edition ofWorld Nuclear Fuel Report: Global Scenarios for Demand and Supply Availability 2025-2040was published.

The report maintains the upward trend in nuclear generating capacity projections from the previous editions, as the positive momentum for nuclear power continues to grow. In addition to climate change mitigation and supporting socio-economic development, there continues to be an increased interest in nuclear power for energy security and sovereignty. Governments, utilities and industrial end-users are showing a strong interest in nuclear reactors to meet their growing energy demands.

This projected expansion of nuclear generation will therefore lead to a corresponding increased demand for primary uranium production. While sufficient uranium resources exist to meet the need for uranium in the Upper Scenario to 2040, further investment and timely decisions are needed to increase production.

The report considers three scenarios, the Reference Scenario, informed by government and utility targets and objectives, the Lower Scenario, which assumes delays in implementing these plans, and the Upper Scenario, which is underpinned by more favourable conditions, largely reflecting the targets announced in many countries to achieve net-zero carbon emissions, and the acceptance that nuclear power will play an indispensable role in reaching this goal.

This edition ofWorld Nuclear Fuel Reportintroduces a new chapter on regional primary supply and demand, reflecting the growing influence of geopolitical factors—particularly since the onset of the Russia-Ukraine conflict in March 2022. These dynamics continue to shape both the global demand for nuclear energy and the availability of key fuel cycle services, including uranium, conversion, enrichment, and fabrication.

Published since the 1970s,World Nuclear Fuel Report: Global Scenarios for Demand and Supply Availability 2025-2040compiles data from confidential surveys, international agencies and other public sources to produce an authoritative projection of global nuclear fuel supply and demand. This report is used by governments, industry, the finance community and multilateral organizations to develop forecasts and policies. Member experts of the Fuel Report Working Group cooperate on the compilation of the report through six sub-groups. Each sub-group focuses on the different areas of the fuel cycle and has ownership of their respective chapters.