TheWorld Nuclear Performance Report 2019 Asia Editionshows that nuclear energy in Asia is meeting the growing demand for electricity, whilst helping to tackle air pollution and climate change. The report, published by World Nuclear Association, was launched today at Singapore International Energy Week.

Nuclear generation in Asia continued its rapid growth in 2018, increasing by 12%. By replacing coal-fired generation nuclear energy avoided the emission of over 500 million tonnes of carbon dioxide last year.

Agneta Rising, Director General of World Nuclear Association said,“Nuclear is fast, scalable and a long-lasting way to add clean electricity generation.

“For the 90 reactors that have started operating from 2000 to today, the typical construction time is 5-7 years. Of those 90 reactors, 27% were built in less than five years – and they will provide clean and reliable electricity for more than 60 years or more.”

Many reactorsin operation today are planned to operate for 60-80 years. Reactors are already demonstrating high performance irrespective of how long they have been in operation, with capacity factors of around 80% maintained regardless of age.

The report profiles Tarapur 1, a reactor located in Palghar, India, which marked 50 years of operation in April 2019. Four other reactors will match this achievement in 2019, the first year in which reactors have passed this milestone.

Worldwide nuclear generation in 2018 increased for the sixth successive year, reaching 2563 TWh. This is more than 10% of global electricity demand.

Overall, capacity additions for the period 2016-2020 are expected to reach the targets of the nuclear industry’s Harmony programme. But build rates will have to increase significantly to achieve the overall goal of supplying 25% of global electricity demand before 2050.

Agneta Rising said,“Nuclear energy is key to Asia meeting the twin challenges of a growing demand for electricity, and an urgent need to switch to less polluting, low-carbon generation sources. More and more organizations are recognizing that nuclear energy is vital to the goal of a sustainable future for people and the planet.”

Agneta Rising discussing the report on Channel News Asia

World Nuclear Association is the international organisation that represents the global nuclear industry. Its mission is to promote a wider understanding of nuclear energy among key international influencers by producing authoritative information, developing common industry positions, and contributing to the energy debate, as well as to pave the way for expanding nuclear business.