World Nuclear Association, the key representative of the global nuclear industry, will be a Knowledge Partner of the 24thWorld Energy Congress to take place in Abu Dhabi

Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates (UAE), 13 June 2018- The UAE Organising Committee of the 24thWorld Energy Congress and World Nuclear Association announced today the signature of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), focussed on endorsing progression in energy transition and supporting nuclear technology during the 24thWorld Energy Congress to take place in Abu Dhabi in 2019.

World Nuclear Association is the international organisation representing the global nuclear industry. With 178 members from 38 countries on board, it is the only industry body with a global mandate to promote nuclear energy. Given its comprehensive coverage of nuclear energy resources, the collaboration between the 24thWorld Energy Committee Organising Committee and World Nuclear Association will contribute to the broader debate on the strategic role of nuclear energy to achieve sustainable transitions both at the event and beyond.

“Nuclear energy plays a strategic role as a technology that can enable countries to streamline energy transitions while reducing emissions and air pollution in the power generation industry. The 2017 Trilemma Index of the World Energy Council highlights that, out of the 15 top performing countries, the majority of them use nuclear energy as a way to power their growth. This is an important factor and we are looking forward to bringing key partners from all the energy sectors, including nuclear, to exchange, learn and create the foundations for further collaborations,” saidDr. Matar Al Neyadi, Undersecretary at the UAE Ministry of Energy and Industry and Chairman of the UAE Organising Committee for the 24th World Energy Congress.

Agneta Rising, Director General of the World Nuclear Association, noted that: “The World Energy Congress is the world’s largest and most influential energy event. This memorandum helps us build international recognition for nuclear energy and its importance to achieving global climate targets, while also supporting sustainable development. We need to work together because we need all low carbon options to make a future clean energy system work.”

Rising continued, “In the five years from 2015 to 2019 we should see 55 new reactors start in twelve countries, two of those countries hosting their first nuclear power plant. This new nuclear generation will avoid the emission of more than 400 million tonnes of carbon dioxide each year, compared to coal.”

Under the patronage of His Highness Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the UAE, the 24thedition of the Congress will take place from 9 to 12 September 2019 at the Abu Dhabi National Exhibition Centre (ADNEC). World Nuclear Association will join other international partners such as the German Energy Agency (dena) in making Abu Dhabi the epicentre of the global energy debate. World Nuclear Association will also join local Host Sponsors Mubadala Investment Company, Abu Dhabi’s leading strategic investment company and Emirates Nuclear Energy (ENEC).

For more information about the 24th World Energy Congress, please visit:

Mustapha Al TayechHill+Knowlton Strategiesmustapha.altayech@hkstrategies.com+971 4 553 9543

Jonathan CobbWorld Nuclear Associationpress@world-nuclear.org+44 20 74511536

The World Energy Congress is the world’s largest and most influential energy event covering all aspects of the energy agenda. Running since 1924, the triennial World Energy Congress enables dialogue among Ministers, CEOs and industry experts on important developments in the energy sector. As the world’s premier energy gathering, the Congress offers a unique opportunity for participants to better understand energy issues and solutions from a global perspective. Over the 90-year history of the World Energy Council the Congress has been key to the value of the organisation. The Congress has been staged in over 20 cities across the world.About the World Energy Congress

About the UAE Organising Committee for the 24th World Energy Congress

The Organising Committee acts as the focal point between the World Energy Council and the 24th World Energy Congress. It is chaired by His Excellency Dr. Matar Hamed Al Neyadi, and the CEO is Her Excellency Fatima Mohammed Al-Foura Al Shamsi.

World Nuclear Association is the international organisation that represents the global nuclear industry. Its mission is to promote a wider understanding of nuclear energy among key international influencers by producing authoritative information, developing common industry positions, and contributing to the energy debate, as well as to pave the way for expanding nuclear business.