On the sidelines of COP30 in Belém, Brazil at the official UNFCCC side-event, World Nuclear Association, leading the nuclear industry’s presence at the climate summit, announced expansion of its coalition supporting the tripling of global nuclear energy capacity by 2050.

New financial institutionsStifelandCIBCjoined theFinancial Institutions Statement of Support, reinforcing the investment community’s commitment to nuclear energy as a cornerstone of clean, resilient, and secure energy systems. They were joined by major energy usersEquinix, Fermi AmericaandCirculairity, as well as new industry members includingKazatomprom and Nuclearis Energy, all pledging support for the goal to at least triple nuclear capacity by 2050.

On Friday, theRepublic of RwandaandSenegalbecame the latest national signatories to theDeclaration to Triple Nuclear Energy, underscoring growing international consensus on nuclear’s role in achieving net-zero emissions and energy independence.

Speaking duringFriday’s announcementat COP30,Dr Sama Bilbao y León, Director General of World Nuclear Association said:“The path to tripling nuclear capacity is open, but it demands bold, pragmatic, and visionary leadership. Governments must act now, but the industry needs to deliver and work together with civil society. A cleaner more resilient future is within reach with nuclear energy. We need to move with purpose, investing in solutions that work to shape a tomorrow that is defined by reliability, innovation, and climate responsibility.”

These announcements coincide with the release of theWorld Nuclear Outlook Report 2025, which reviews national government targets for nuclear energy, revealing that tripling global nuclear capacity by 2050, can be achieved, provided governments take immediate and sustained action to deliver on their own national targets for nuclear capacity.

The Association continues to lead efforts to unite governments, industry leaders, financial institutions, and energy consumers—forming what it calls the “coalition of the ambitious.”

Launched at theWorld Nuclear Symposiumin September 2023 and in partnership with theEmirates Nuclear Energy Corporationahead of COP28 in Dubai, the initiative to triple global nuclear energy capacity by 2050 has gained momentum:

> 33 nations endorsing the Declaration to Triple Nuclear Energyinclude: Armenia, Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, Czech Republic, El Salvador, Finland, France, Ghana, Hungary, Jamaica, Japan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Republic of Korea, Kosovo, Moldova, Mongolia, Morocco, Netherlands, Nigeria, Poland, Romania, *Republic of Rwanda, *Senegal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden, Turkey, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, and the United States of America.

> Over 140 nuclear industry companieshave endorsed the accompanying industry pledge.

> 16 major financial institutionshave backed the goal since September 2024.

>Now joined by agrowing group of large energy users, the initiative reflects broad-based support across the energy ecosystem.

*New endorsers, as of Friday 14 November 2025, at COP30 in Belém, Brazil.

World Nuclear Association remains committed to advancing nuclear energy as a vital solution for climate action, energy security, and sustainable development.

World Nuclear Association's Net Zero Initiative calls for unprecedented collaboration between government and industry to at least triple global nuclear capacity and achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. It drives impact through advocacy and engagement, ensuring nuclear stays at the forefront of energy and global climate discussions. The initiative provides a clear, concise narrative that resonates beyond the nuclear sector, making it accessible to policymakers, investors, energy users, and the public.

Our strategic partners,UrencoandCameco, play a key role in this journey, creating long-term value by fueling nuclear energy’s recognition as a clean and reliable cornerstone of global sustainability.