World Nuclear Association is pleased to announce new appointments to our Board of Management, which met Tuesday 8th April 2025 in Montreal, Canada on the sidelines of our World Nuclear Fuel Cycle Conference 2025.

Johan Svenningsson, Country Chairman and CEO Uniper Sweden, has been elected Vice Chairman and Chairman Elect of World Nuclear Association.

Chairman of the Board H.E. Mohamed Al Hammadi, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Emirates Nuclear Energy Company, thanked outgoing Vice Chairman, Bohdan Zronek, Chief Nuclear Officer of ČEZ and welcomed Johan Svenningsson saying“It is a pleasure to welcome Johan as Vice Chairman and Chairman Elect to the World Nuclear Association Board of Directors. Johan joins us at a time of great positive momentum in the nuclear sector and I am certain he will bring great value as we work to capitalize on the many opportunities we have across the industry. I would also like to thank Bohdan for his support over the past years and am glad he will now continue to share his inputs as a Board Member.”

Bohdan Zronek completes his term as Vice-Chairman, having served as Chairman for 2 years; supporting the launch of Net Zero Nuclear alongside Mohamed Al Hammadi in preparation for COP28, along with overseeing the World Nuclear Spotlight event in Kazakhstan in support of its nuclear referendum, the 20thanniversary of World Nuclear University, and many other key Association initiatives. Mr Zronek remains on the Board as a member at large.

Speaking about the appointment, incoming Vice Chairman, Johan Svenningsson said:“It is a privilege to take on the role of Vice Chairman and Chairman Elect at a time when the nuclear sector is gaining such strong momentum. I look forward to supporting the Board’s work and helping the Association make the most of the opportunities that lie ahead for our industry.”

Sama Bilbao y León, Director general of World Nuclear Association, said of the appointment:“Johan’s insight and expertise have been an asset to our Board for some time. I look forward to his leadership in the role of Vice Chairman and to working with him more closely over the months to come.I also welcome the new and re-elected board members, and thank Mohamed for his ongoing support as our chairman.”

The following Board members have been re-elected to serve a further two-year term: George Borovas, Tim Gitzel, Bryan Hanson, Nicolas Maes, In-Sik Park, Boris Schucht, Liudmila Zalimskaya and Bohdan Zronek. Three new Board members have also been elected: Amir Adnani, CEO of Uranium Energy Corp., Mr Andrei Rozhdestvin, Director General of Rosatom Energy Projects Company, and Meirzhan Yussupov, CEO of Kazatomprom.

The rest of the Board of Management of World Nuclear Association is comprised of Malcolm Critchley, Mohamed Saad Dwiddar, Mingang Huang, Raul Lycurgo, Hitoshi Mizuta, Teppei Narita, Jean-Michel Quilichini, Craig Ranson, Xianfeng Wang and Mingguang Zheng.

Further information:World Nuclear AssociationBoard of Management