2025 The year in nuclear

As Nuclear News has done since 2022, we have compiled a review of the nuclear news that filled headlines and sparked conversations in the year just completed. Departing from the chronological format of years past, we open with the most impactful news of 2025: a survey of actions and orders of the Trump administration that are reshaping nuclear research, development, deployment, and commercialization. We then highlight some of the top news in nuclear restarts, new reactor testing programs, the fuel supply chain and broader fuel cycle, and more.

New DOE leader wants to unleash American energy dominance
Wright
February: On February 5, Energy Secretary Chris Wright outlined his priorities and plans, including a focus on modernizing nuclear power and “taking the politics out” of energy discussions, especially as they relate to climate change.
Wright was confirmed by the U.S. Senate on February 3 and vowed the following day to “unleash American energy in accordance with President Trump’s executive orders,” in his first secretarial order. On January 20, Trump issued a far-reaching executive order (EO) titled “Unleashing American Energy,” in which he directs agencies to conduct an immediate review of “all agency actions that potentially burden the development of domestic energy resources,” including nuclear.

Trump issues EOs to overhaul nuclear industry
President Trump signs one of the four nuclear-related EOs in the Oval Office. (Photo: White House)
May: The Trump administration issued four EOs on May 23 aimed at boosting domestic nuclear deployment ahead of significant growth in projected energy demand in the coming decades. These orders aim to reclaim leadership in nuclear technology crucial for national security and competitive AI advancements.
“Reinvigorating the Nuclear Industrial Base” seeks to expand the domestic fuel supply chain and accelerate the reactor licensing process.
“Deploying Advanced Nuclear Reactor Technologies for National Security” orders the Department of Defense to deploy a reactor at an installation by 2028 and promotes international nuclear collaboration.
“Ordering the Reform of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission” calls for a comprehensive review of NRC regulations to reduce regulatory barriers to deployment.
“Reforming Nuclear Reactor Testing at the Department of Energy” establishes a DOE reactor pilot program and aims to reform the national laboratory process for reactor testing.

New DOE NEPA rulemaking and procedures prioritize efficient reactor testing
June: Meeting a deadline set by President Trump’s May 23 EO “Reforming Nuclear Reactor Testing at the Department of Energy,” the DOE on June 30 updated information on its National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) rulemaking and published an interim final rule rescinding existing regulations alongside new NEPA implementing procedures. Trump first targeted NEPA regulations in the EO “Unleashing American Energy” signed January 20. The DOE Office of NEPA Policy and Compliance said the DOE rulemaking will “remove most of the DOE regulations” that contain NEPA implementing procedures.
The nuclear outlook on the Big Beautiful Bill
July: After a lengthy and contentious reconciliation process, on July 4, President Trump signed H.R.1, the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. The act modified tax credits from President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act, accelerating phaseouts for wind and solar incentives while preserving support for nuclear, geothermal, and hydropower. Nuclear also gained a new tax credit for advanced facilities employing at least 0.17 percent of the local population, reinforcing its favored status under the Trump administration.
Hanson
June: The Trump administration continued pursuing its goal of reorganizing the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, deregulating the energy sector, and deploying advanced reactors. On June 13, NRC commissioner Christopher Hanson was dismissed from the agency, leaving one of the five seats on the commission empty.

Trump expels all but one member of nuclear waste oversight board
July: The Trump administration dismissed seven of eight board members of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board, the independent federal agency tasked with evaluating the technical and scientific validity of Department of Energy activities related to managing and disposing of high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel.

Nieh
Caputo
The NRC’s Annie Caputo resigns; Ho Nieh nominated to the NRC
July: NRC commissioner Annie Caputo resigned one day after the U.S. Senate voted to reconfirm chair David Wright to the commission, leaving two seats empty. A day after Caputo’s resignation, Ho Nieh was nominated for the role of commissioner through the remainder of a term that will expire June 30, 2029. At the time of his nomination, Nieh was set to be the first former NRC resident inspector to serve as a commissioner.