ANS’s Craig Piercy discusses nuclear energy on podcast

The American Nuclear Society's Executive Director/CEO Craig Piercy recently sat down with Richard Morrison on an episode of the Competitive Enterprise Institute’s Free the Economy podcast.
During the 40-minute interview, Piercy discussed a range of nuclear-related issues, including government policies, advanced reactors, and economics.
Nuclear enlightenment: When Morrison asked about the phrase “nuclear power renaissance,” Piercy responded that “enlightenment” would be a more accurate term. He explained, “I think people are beginning to develop a better appreciation for the challenges that we have with energy in both our country and the world, and the environmental consequences of getting that energy.”
Noting the “broad partisan support” nuclear is currently enjoying, Piercy said that people on the left side of the ideological spectrum “tend to come to nuclear because they’re trying to solve the climate challenge” while those on the right are generally “focused on energy security and the need for a robust energy grid that allows us to achieve the kind of economic growth that the country needs.”
He also emphasized the “bipartisan acknowledgment that nuclear is absolutely necessary for our future growth and affluence as a country.”
Fairly consistent: There has been “fairly consistent” progress in government policy regarding nuclear energy over the past several years under both Republican and Democrat administrations, according to Piercy. “I think, by every indication, there is momentum to this,” he said. “We have seen a number of nuclear reactor developers in the last five to ten years, and you're really beginning to see those companies building order books and working on their designs. So, I think it’s been the sum total of consistent policies over the years that supported nuclear [and] has sort of propelled it forward to where it is today.”
Executive orders: When asked about the nuclear energy–related executive orders (EOs) signed by President Trump, Piercy replied that “the holistic impact of all four of those executive orders was essentially to put the entire U.S. government on a front-foot orientation when it came to developing nuclear.”
Acknowledging that there was “a lot to unpack” in the EOs, he believes that most in the industry think they are a step in the right direction. On the other hand, “there’s a lot in the implementation that you’ve got to get right so that you avoid that kind of ‘wrecking ball’ scenario where you’re swinging wildly between different administrations and different majorities in Congress,” he said.
Giving it a push: Piercy likened government support of nuclear over the last decade to “a firm hand on the bicycle seat . . . and giving it a push.” But as is always the case, “at some point you have to let go.”
As long as the government keeps its current commitments to the industry and stays consistent with policy, Piercy said, nuclear has had a great push-start. “At some point, nuclear has to ride on its own. . . . So, I think we’re getting to that point where the hand may not be off the bicycle seat just yet, but the momentum is there.”
Right solution at right time: Piercy also talked about how the outlook for the nuclear industry has changed over the years. “I came into the nuclear industry as a young congressional staffer back in the 1990s. . . . What nuclear looked like then, I think if you had to boil it down to two words, it was ‘orderly closure,’ right? Let’s use these plants until the end of their lifetimes and let’s make sure we’ve got a way to manage the waste, and then we’re going to move on.”
The last five years, however, has seen a “tectonic shift,” he said, “where we’re now looking at electricity-demand growth rates that are two, sometimes three, times faster [than previously expected].”
At present, Piercy called nuclear “the right solution at the right time,” in this era of hyperscalers, data centers, and artificial intelligence driving demand.
Star Trek or Planet of the Apes? The status of nuclear energy ultimately comes down to the views of regular people, Piercy said. “Nuclear can be scary to a lot of people if you don’t know a lot about it. The more you learn about it, the easier it is to love.”
He continued, “ANS is not an advocacy organization. We’re scientific and professional. But that doesn’t mean we don’t have 12,000 enthusiasts that can see ways in which nuclear technology can help people better their lives, save their lives in some cases, and create that world of abundance that we all want that allows us to have a peaceful prosperous existence, whether it’s as a country or a world.”
In the end, Piercy believes that society’s choice to embrace nuclear energy is “analogous to our choice about what we think future civilization should look like. Is it Star Trek or is it Planet of the Apes?” For those who choose to look toward an optimistic future, nuclear is, Piercy said, the clear choice.
About the podcast: Free the Economy is a weekly podcast from the Competitive Enterprise Institute that examines “the intersection of news, policy, and economics,” according to the institute’s website.
Morrison is a senior fellow at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, which develops and advocates for policies “to eliminate harmful bureaucratic controls so people can live in a freer, healthier, and more prosperous nation.”