Hash Hashemian Visionary leadership

As Dr. Hashem M. “Hash” Hashemian prepares to step into his term as President of the American Nuclear Society, he is clear that he wants to make the most of this unique moment.
A groundswell in public approval of nuclear is finding a home in growing governmental support that is backed by a tailwind of technological innovation. “Now is a good time to be in nuclear,” Hashemian said, as he explained the criticality of this moment and what he hoped to accomplish as president.
Hash’s father, Ali Hashemian, pictured here with his daughter, Mitra, and sons Hash and Mehrad.
Ali Hashemian with his children (from left): Mitra, Hash, Tashi, and Mehrad.
The Hashemian family (from left): father Ali, Tashi, Mitra, Mehrad, mother Simin, and Hash
With 50 years of ANS membership and professional experience, three doctoral degrees, and a successful track record as the CEO and cofounder of Analysis and Measurement Services Corp. under his belt, Hashemian plans to bring the same level of perseverance to his leadership of the Society as he has throughout his career in nuclear power plant safety and efficiency.
Born in Iran, Hashemian’s long journey throughout the nuclear world has given him a broad perspective on the needs of this moment. In his last month as vice president, he laid out several key goals for his term as ANS’s 71st president: “My focus will be on [supporting] deployment of new nuclear plants and ensuring the continued operation of the existing fleet as well as restarting shut-down plants,” he said, adding that he will work to “encourage the government to continue and increase its financial support for nuclear energy.”
While those are large goals to tackle, Hashemian is no stranger to hard work and balancing multiple priorities. Being part of a large and loving family, running a company, publishing papers, teaching at universities, supporting ANS, and playing roles in state and federal government, he is used to having a full plate.
From an early age, Hashemian wanted to follow in the footsteps of his late father, who was a prominent criminal defense and women’s rights lawyer in Iran. In high school, he planned to study literature, history, and law and eventually become a lawyer himself, but he was discouraged by his father, who said the future would be in engineering and science and told him to pursue it. “I listened to my dad,” Hashemian said. “He was right.”
After high school, Hashemian went to the National University of Iran. There, he earned a B.S. in physics in 1973. During that time, the Shah—the king of Iran—was developing plans for a robust nuclear power sector in the country. Hashemian explained that the Shah planned to oversee the deployment of “over 20 large-size, Western-made nuclear power plants to generate electricity so that the country’s vast oil and gas products could be exported and used for other purposes.”
With these developments in mind, Hashemian decided to study nuclear engineering. He landed in Houston, Texas, in 1974 at the age of 24, with plans to earn an advanced degree and then return to Iran to work in the country’s emerging nuclear power sector.
Hashemian was picked up from the airport by his brother, who drove him 90 miles east to the small city of Beaumont, Texas. On that drive, he saw a very different country than the one he had expected. “When you arrive in the U.S., you think every place is going to look like New York, a lot of tall buildings and hustle and bustle,” he explained.
In Beaumont—where the tallest building was the four-story university library—Hashemian enrolled at Lamar University and took his first classes in nuclear engineering. After six months, he opted to leave Lamar for the University of Tennessee. He chose UT because of the reputation of its nuclear engineering program and its close connection with Oak Ridge National Laboratory, where his aunt, Roudi Jamasebi, was pursuing postdoctoral work as a cancer researcher.
In 1977, Hashemian earned an M.S. in nuclear engineering from UT. His plans to immediately return home changed in favor of first getting some experience in the U.S. and then returning to Iran.