NEA visit to Mongolia focuses on nuclear energy development

Nuclear Energy Agency Director General William D. Magwood IV visited Mongolia recently for a series of meetings with government representatives and to participate in discussions on nuclear energy development in the country.
Magwood leads an SMR workshop in Mongolia. (Photo: NEA)
Magwood met with Minister of Energy Battogtokh Choijilsuren to discuss the potential deployment of small modular reactors in Mongolia, as well as challenges in the nuclear energy sector related to financing, supply chain disruptions, and workforce development. He highlighted the NEA’s work on these topics and on the analysis of SMR projects around the world, as documented in the NEA SMR Dashboard—a comprehensive assessment report of the progress made by SMR developers worldwide first published in 2023 and updated periodically.
Full schedule: During the visit, which took place February 20-21, meetings were held with Mongolian officials such as Ulziisaikhan Ganbold, director general of the International Trade and Economic Affairs Department in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; Javkhlanbaatar Sereeter, state secretary of the Ministry of Industry and Minerals; and Manlaijav Gun-Aajav, secretary of the Nuclear Energy Commission. The discussions focused on the process of preparing for the adoption of nuclear energy technologies, including through the development of legal frameworks and regulatory requirements, expanding local workforce and education programs, and fostering public trust. Magwood emphasized the importance of international cooperation in each of those areas.
Filling out his schedule, Magwood visited the National University of Mongolia, where he engaged in discussions with students and staff and gave a lecture on the opportunities and challenges in the nuclear sector. He also headlined an event titled Clean Energy Transition and SMR Workshop: Towards a Roadmap for Nuclear Energy in Mongolia, where he provided keynote remarks and moderated a panel on nuclear energy’s role in the future energy mix of the country.