NEDHO A conversation with Seungjin Kim

Kim
Recently, Nuclear Engineering Department Heads Organization Chair Seungjin Kim talked with Nuclear News about NEDHO’s current condition, governmental funding for NEDHO and university research, the impact of artificial intelligence and other technologies in the classroom, the influence of advanced reactors in nuclear engineering education, and other issues.
Kim, who is an ANS Fellow, is the Captain James F. McCarthy Jr. and Cheryl E. McCarthy Head of Nuclear Engineering at Purdue University, in West Lafayette, Ind. He began his 2025–2026 term as NEDHO chair earlier this year. He took over from the previous chair, Sukesh Aghara, professor and director of the Nuclear and Chemical Engineering Department at the University of Massachusetts–Lowell.
NEDHO hosted a reception during the organization’s Hill Day in Washington, D.C., in April. Attendees included NEDHO members, ANS leaders and staff, and others. (Photo: NEDHO)
NEDHO basics
NEDHO’s executive committee comprises the chair, the chair-elect, and the three most recent past chairs. As chair, Kim is the official representative and spokesperson for NEDHO, serving for a one-year term after having served as chair-elect for the previous year. The one-year terms of office typically coincide with the ANS Annual Conferences in June.
Academic institutions that are members of NEDHO pay annual membership dues to assist the organization. Individual memberships are also available. NEDHO’s member institutions—of which there were 31 as of mid-2025— share information about their nuclear engineering programs through fact sheets, which are overviews of the programs with statistics on faculty and student numbers, research expenditures, and other important matters. All the fact sheets for recent years have been posted on NEDHO’s website at nedho.org.
Kim earned his Ph.D. in nuclear engineering from Purdue University in 1999. After teaching at the University of Missouri–Rolla and Pennsylvania State University, he returned to his alma mater in June 2017 to head the School of Nuclear Engineering.
Kim’s main research interests include thermal-hydraulics analysis and nuclear reactor safety. An ANS member since 1997, he previously chaired the Society’s Thermal Hydraulics Division. He is also the director of Purdue University Reactor Number One (PUR-1), a research reactor that is the first and only nuclear reactor operating in Indiana, as well as the first and only NRC facility to be licensed for a fully digital safety and control system.
Kim also serves as director of Purdue’s Advanced Reactor Thermal-hydraulics (ART) Laboratory, where he performs research on two-phase flow analysis and interfacial area transport models, advanced flow instrumentation, reactor systems analysis codes, advanced reactor technologies, and multiphase computational fluid dynamics analysis.
In addition to his academic and research responsibilities at Purdue, Kim is the chair of the Global Forum for Nuclear Education, Science, Technology, and Policy, which is affiliated with the OECD’s Nuclear Energy Agency. In 2018 and 2019, he served on the Nuclear Energy Advisory Committee of the Department of Energy’s Office of Nuclear Energy.
Read on for Kim’s conversation with NN contributor A.J. Smuskiewicz.

How would you summarize the current state of NEDHO?
NEDHO provides a forum for discussion, coordination, and collaboration on issues facing academic programs emphasizing nuclear and radiological science, engineering, and technology. It works closely with ANS and facilitates opportunities for partnership and cooperation with nuclear stakeholders, including academic institutions, government offices, industry partners, and national laboratories, as well as other similar societies and organizations.
The organization also plays an active role in informing and educating the nation’s policymakers on topics regarding nuclear policy, science and technology, and engineering education. So, in summary, I would say that NEDHO plays a vital role in effectively representing the academic sector within the nuclear engineering community, and it offers meaningful support both to the nuclear industry and to policymakers working toward national benefits.

Are government funding levels for nuclear education where they should be?
There has been consistent government support for research and development in nuclear engineering and science across a broad spectrum of nuclear energy topics, including the advancement of reactor technologies. In recent years, growing emphasis has also been placed on nuclear workforce development. Notably, funding from the Department of Energy—one of the primary sources of academic research support—has increased by more than 25 percent in the past decade. While the federal government is currently working to streamline funding allocation models, we anticipate continued strong support for nuclear education, research, and development.

Does NEDHO have a stance on the DOE’s possible curtailing of funding for university research?
NEDHO Executive Committee members, including 2025–26 NEDHO Chair Seungjin Kim (far left) and 2024–25 Chair Sukesh Aghara (second from right), along with some ANS staff and others, visited the Department of Energy’s Office of Nuclear Energy during Hill Day in April. (Photo: NEDHO)
NEDHO remains attentive to how fiscal year 2026 DOE funding is being handled by Congress, and we are looking forward to the upcoming announcements regarding the FY 2025 awards, including the Office of Nuclear Energy’s University Nuclear Leadership Program (UNLP) scholarships and fellowships.

What impact do you think AI will have in the classroom—or in any other area for NEDHO?
There is no doubt that artificial intelligence is now pervasive—even in the classroom. One growing challenge is accurately assessing students’ work, particularly in coding assignments, and determining the extent to which it was completed independently versus with the help of AI tools.
When used thoughtfully, AI holds significant potential to enhance learning. The real challenge for universities lies in how to embrace this rapidly evolving technology and leverage its benefits rather than avoid it. I believe the key lies in fostering critical thinking in the use of AI: understanding how AI systems function, recognizing their limitations, and being familiar with the different types of AI models. Additionally, although it can be challenging, developing strong engineering ethical frameworks around digital technology will be essential.

Are there other technologies coming that will benefit nuclear engineering education?
As computing capabilities continue to grow exponentially and as the nuclear power sector transitions from analog to digital systems, it is essential to incorporate emerging technologies into nuclear engineering education. Some examples may include advancements in digital twinning, high-fidelity simulation, quantum technologies, and advanced nuclear manufacturing. Additionally, immersive visualization techniques may offer promising opportunities to enhance learning by providing students with more realistic and interactive experiences than we could provide in the past.

How will nuclear engineering education change with the various advanced reactor designs on the drawing board?
It is my understanding that most of our nuclear engineering colleagues have already integrated advanced reactor technologies into their existing curricula. While foundational knowledge of light water reactor systems and reactor physics remains essential, there is a growing need to broaden the scope to include a wider range of technologies, particularly in areas such as advanced nuclear fuel materials and fabrication and the back end of the nuclear fuel cycle.

The NEDHO meeting at the 2025 ANS Annual Conference in Chicago in June. (Photo: NEDHO)
Considering how many companies are designing small modular reactors and microreactors, do you see potential growth of university nuclear engineering programs?
Yes, we have seen a significant increase in interest and enrollment over the last few years. Anecdotally, several peer institutions without existing nuclear programs are now showing growing interest in nuclear engineering education. Additionally, it is notable that some regional community colleges have begun exploring the development of nuclear-related curricula.

How do institutions benefit from being NEDHO members?
NEDHO empowers nuclear academic institutions to collectively discuss and advocate shared interests. This role is essential not only for thriving in today’s competitive academic environment, but also for fostering collaboration and driving coordinated efforts on critical issues in nuclear education.

Does NEDHO have sister organizations internationally?
I am not certain which other countries have organizations similar to NEDHO. If there are any, however, we do not have any established connections with them. Nevertheless, NEDHO would consider establishing such connections, because it can be helpful to address any common global interests and develop collaborations as needed, especially on academic agendas.