NEI chief executive highlights “unlimited potential” for nuclear in state of the industry address

Korsnick
In the Nuclear Energy Institute’s annual State of the Nuclear Energy Industry report, NEI president and CEO and Maria Korsnick expressed optimism about the nuclear industry and she issued a call to action.
Her address was part of NEI’s Nuclear Energy Policy forum. The forum, being held in Washington, D.C., on May 20 and May 21, brings together industry leaders, policy stakeholders, and clean energy experts to discuss nuclear advocacy. Korsnick’s remarks focused on the private capital flowing into the industry, progress on regulatory reform and new nuclear technology, and how the U.S. is trying to take the lead on the global nuclear stage.
“We are here at an unprecedented time in our industry history,” Korsnick said. “I’m proud to say that the nuclear industry has a future of unlimited potential.”
Korsnick acknowledged that there are some “headwinds” trying to slow or stop new nuclear projects, but she believes nuclear advocates can “speak louder” and address frequently asked questions to better inform the public about nuclear energy.
“The actions that we take today will define what the future looks like,” she said.
Call to action: Korsnick stressed the importance of preserving nuclear tax credits enacted in 2021 as part of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law—a $6 billion portion of the overarching $1.2 trillion legislative measure.
The Department of Energy’s Civil Nuclear Credit program was designed to give owners/operators of commercial reactors the opportunity to apply for certification and competitively bid on credits to help support the continued operation of economically troubled units. But early drafts of the next federal budget include language that would phase the credits out.
“Just recently NEI joined more than 120 of our member companies to send a letter to congressional leadership urging them to retain the credits,” Korsnick said, urging everyone listening to the address to take similar steps and contact their lawmakers.
Life before the tax credits, Korsnick said, involved prematurely retiring plants and limited investment across the industry.
“After those tax credits were passed, what did we start to see? Power upgrades, plant restarts, and decades-long reactor extensions,” she said. “All of that could slow down or turn around completely if Congress fails to preserve the nuclear credits.”
“We’re not giving up, and we will be out there pounding the pavement every step of the way,” Korsnick added. “Here’s the bottom line: nuclear tax credits support good jobs, thriving communities, and national security, so members of Congress have a choice—to shape the future or stand in its way.
Private sector buy-in: Korsnick shared a story about meeting with leaders from Silicon Valley companies several years ago and being told there was no way they would pursue nuclear energy.
“Fast forward to today, we’re in a whole new reality,” she said. “Google, Meta, Amazon have all joined 14 of the world’s biggest banks and financial institutions to pledge to triple global nuclear power by 2050.”
Korsnick said the number of attendees at NEI’s annual financing summit doubled this year, and the private sector transaction value in nuclear in 2024 was more than the previous four years combined.
“Corporations aren’t running away from nuclear, they’re running to us—and our arms are wide open,” she said.
Policy progress: At the state level, Korsnick said more leaders are removing restrictions on nuclear and taking action to expand its use.
Last year, 25 states took pronuclear action, while seven state-level public utility commissions approved orders to take action in support of nuclear. So far this year, 11 governors have mentioned nuclear in their state of the state addresses, and “their words have been matched with action,” according to Korsnick.
She pointed to Tennessee, where Kairos Power is building the first of two new demonstration reactors “and the concrete is drying as we speak.” In Wyoming, TerraPower is building the state's first commercial reactor. Colorado passed a bill that puts nuclear in the same category as other clean-energy technology. “And in Texas,” she said, “they're developing a nuclear energy fund, which could become the largest investment in nuclear from any state.”
Across the nation, 61 percent of Americans support nuclear energy, which is the highest polling for the industry in 15 years, Korsnick said.
“Nuclear has gone from being an afterthought to being the first call.”