The task ahead

Lisa Marshallpresident@ans.org
“As we enter the 21st century, the status of the U.S. nuclear energy industry is in flux, dependent on actions by industry, government, circumstance . . . and public opinion. Its renewal coincides with several initiatives taken by government and capitalized in particular ways by energy organizations, be they utilities, engineering firms, professional societies, educational institutions, national laboratories, trade organizations, and/or research and regulatory governmental branches . . . Nuclear fission has unleashed upon society benefits and cautionary tales that are currently being privately and publicly debated.”
These words, which I wrote almost a decade ago as part of my master’s thesis, are as true today as they were then. I have a long-standing relationship with the nuclear energy landscape. And so, as I reflect on my journey to and as your ANS president, there are some truths that have stood the test of time, serving as signposts that must remain in sight for the nuclear community:
Along with these truths come certain challenges:
The nuclear future we need requires commitment to expertise in several arenas, including the sociotechnical. I challenge us to see the possibilities and draw from other sectors—some adjacent and others with no relation—to garner inspiration, lessons, and practices.
We are once again at a nexus—supporting the current nuclear fleet and advancing its next generations—while thinking through the many applications of nuclear science and technology. I challenge us to see this part of the journey less as a renaissance and more of an expansion. As a nuclear nation, we must engage in understanding, influencing, and revolutionizing ourselves and other industries. We must embrace the twists and turns as they make us agile, resilient, and innovative.
In the words of geographer Karl Zimmerer, “Energy is far and away the most significant international resource system and political economic nexus, weighing in as the defining concern of a majority of the largest companies, parastatal firms, and national enterprises.”
Postscript—A special thanks to everyone who has impacted my journey. It has been a pleasure serving you as the 70th ANS president—visiting with individuals, student chapters, local sections, companies, and agencies and connecting with established as well as new and emerging nations and societies. I continue to be of service to the nuclear enterprise and our nuclear futures.